Global Initiative for
POCKET
Chronic Obstructive
Lung Disease
POCKET GUIDE TO COPD
Global Strategy for the Diagnosis, Management, and
DIAGNOSIS, MANAGEMENT, AND PREVENTION
Prevention of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
A Guide for Health Care Professionals
GLOBAL INITIATIVE FOR
CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE LUNG
DISEASE
POCKET GUIDE TO COPD
DIAGNOSIS, MANAGEMENT, AND PREVENTION
A Guide for Health Care Professionals
2024 EDITION
© 2023, 2024 Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease, Inc.
Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer
The information provided by Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (“GOLD”) for inclusion in its materials, website, and applications (including but not limited to web based or digital applications) is provided for the convenience of users to help them understand the conclusions of GOLD as of the date of the specific information’s approval by GOLD. That information’s relevance to, and/or application to, a particular patient or case must be carefully assessed, evaluated, and determined by a qualified health care professional treating that patient or case. Users need to be aware of the fact that only the English language version of GOLD’s information has been reviewed and approved by GOLD, and that users must ensure that they have the most current version of GOLD’s information since GOLD’s information may have been updated or changed after its original release. Especially in light of the above, GOLD expressly disclaims any liability arising out of any use or misuse of the information it provides.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer i
GOLD BOARD OF DIRECTORS GOLD SCIENCE COMMITTEE*
(2023) (2023)
Alvar Agusti, MD, Chair Claus Vogelmeier, MD, Chair Obianuju Ozoh, MD
Respiratory Institute University of Marburg University of Lagos
Hospital Clinic, IDIBAPS Marburg, Germany Lagos, Nigeria
Univ. Barcelona and Ciberes
Barcelona, Spain Alvar Agusti, MD Alberto Papi, MD
Respiratory Institute University of Ferrara
Bartolome R. Celli, MD Hospital Clinic, IDIBAPS Ferrara, Italy
Harvard Medical School Univ. Barcelona and Ciberes
Boston, Massachusetts, USA Barcelona, Spain Ian Pavord, DM FMedSci
Respiratory Medicine Unit and Oxford
Gerard Criner, MD Antonio Anzueto, MD Respiratory NIHR Biomedical Research
Temple University School of Medicine South Texas Veterans Health Care Centre, Nuffield Department of Medicine
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA System University of Oxford
University of Texas, Health Oxford, UK
David Halpin, MD San Antonio, Texas, USA
University of Exeter Medical School Nicolas Roche, MD
College of Medicine and Health Peter Barnes, DM, FRS – Retired, 2023 PneuEmologie, Hôpital Cochin
University of Exeter, Exeter National Heart & Lung Institute AP-HP.Centre – Université Paris Cité
Devon, UK Imperial College BUMR 1016
London, United Kingdom R IInstitut Cochin
M. Victorina López Varela, MD – Retired, 2023 T Paris, France
Universidad de la República Jean Bourbeau, MD S
Hospital Maciel McGill University Health CenDtre Don D. Sin, MD
Montevideo, Uruguay McGill University T St. Paul’s Hospital
Montreal, Canada O University of British Columbia
Maria Montes de Oca, MD Vancouver, Canada
Hospital Universitario de Caracas Gerard Criner, MOD
Universidad Central de Venezuela Temple University School of Medicine Dave Singh, MD
Centro Médico de Caracas Philadelph i-a, Pennsylvania, USA University of Manchester
Caracas, Venezuela A Manchester, UK
DavidI Halpin, MD
Obianuju Ozoh, MD EUniversity of Exeter Medical School Robert Stockley, MD DSc
University of Lagos TCollege of Medicine and Health University Hospital
Lagos, Nigeria University of Exeter, Exeter Birmingham, UK
Devon, UK
Sundeep Salvi, MD T M. Victorina López Varela, MD– Retired,
Pulmocare Research and Education G MeiLan K. Han, MD MS 2023
(PURE) Foundation I University of Michigan Universidad de la República
Pune, India Ann Arbor, MI, USA Hospital Maciel
P Montevideo, Uruguay
Claus Vogelmeier, MD O Fernando J. Martinez, MD MS
University of Marburg C Weill Cornell Medical Center/ Jadwiga A. Wedzicha, MD
Marburg, Germany New York-Presbyterian Hospital National Heart & Lung Institute
New York, NY, USA Imperial College London
Jinping Zheng, MD London, UK
Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Health, Maria Montes de Oca, MD
First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Hospital Universitario de Caracas Jinping Zheng, MD
Medical University, Universidad Central de Venezuela Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory
Guangzhou, China Centro Médico de Caracas Health, First Affiliated Hospital of
Caracas, Venezuela Guangzhou Medical University
Guangzhou, China
GOLD EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EDITORIAL ASSISTANCE ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Katie Langefeld, BS Ruth Hadfield, PhD Contributor: Anna Podolanczuk, MD
Illinois, USA Macquarie University AIHI Assistant Professor of Medicine
Sydney, Australia Weill Cornell Medical College
Graphic Design: Imbue Creative
Disclosure forms for GOLD Committees are posted on the GOLD Website, www.goldcopd.org
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS ................................................................. 1 Oxygen therapy .................................................................. 23
INTRODUCTION ......................................................................... 1 Ventilatory support ............................................................. 25
WHAT IS COPD? ......................................................................... 1 SUPPORTIVE, PALLIATIVE, END-OF-LIFE & HOSPICE CARE ........ 26
KEY POINTS: ......................................................................... 1 THERAPEUTIC INTERVENTIONS THAT REDUCE COPD MORTALITY ............... 26
DIAGNOSIS AND ASSESSMENT ................................................... 2 OVERVIEW OF THE EVIDENCE: PHARMACOTHERAPY ............................... 28
KEY POINTS: ......................................................................... 2 Pharmacotherapies for smoking cessation ......................... 28
DIAGNOSIS ................................................................................ 2 Pharmacotherapy to treat stable COPD ............................. 28
CLINICAL PRESENTATION ........................................................... 2 Bronchodilators .................................................................. 29
Symptoms............................................................................. 2 Methylxanthines ................................................................. 32
Dyspnea................................................................................ 3 Combination bronchodilator therapy ................................. 32
Chronic cough....................................................................... 4 Anti-inflammatory agents .................................................. 33
Sputum production ............................................................... 4 Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) ............................................... 33
Wheezing and chest tightness .............................................. 4 Triple therapy (LABA+LAMA+ICS) ....................................... 37
Fatigue ................................................................................. 5 Oral glucocorticoids ............................................................ 37
Additional clinical features in severe disease ....................... 5 Phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitor ................................ 37
MEDICAL HISTORY ..................................................................... 5 Antibiotics .....................E...................................................... 38
SPIROMETRY .............................................................................. 5 Mucolytic (mucokinUetics, mucoregulators) and antioxidant
INITIAL ASSESSMENT ................................................................. 7 agents (N-acetylcBysteine, carbocysteine, erdosteine) ........ 38
Severity of airflow obstruction ............................................. 7 Other drugs wRith potential to reduce exacerbations .......... 38
Symptoms............................................................................. 7 Other phSarmacological treatments .................................... 39
Blood eosinophil count ......................................................... 9 OVERVIEWD OF I THE EVIDENCE: NON-PHARMACOLOGICAL THERAPY ............ 40
Multimorbidity ................................................................... 10 PuTlm onary rehabilitation, self-management and integrative
Combined initial COPD assessment .................................... 10
O care in COPD ....................................................................... 40
PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT OF COPD........................... 12 MANAGEMENT OF EXACERBATIONS ........................................ 41
KEY POINTS: ....................................................................... 12 KEY POINTS: ........................................................................ 41
INTRODUCTION ....................................................................... 13 Considerations .................................................................... 41
 IDENTIFY AND REDUCE EXPOSURE TO RISK FACTORS .............. 13 L TREATMENT OPTIONS .............................................................. 44
SMOKING CESSATION ..................................................................... 1I4 Treatment setting ............................................................... 44
VACCINATIONS ........................................................................E..... 15 Respiratory Support ............................................................ 46
PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATMENT OF STABLE COPD ...
....T........ 15
COPD AND COMORBIDITIES ...................................................... 47
ALGORITHMS FOR THE INITIATION AND FOLLOW-UP OF PHARMMACOLOGICAL
TREATMENT ........................................................... T .... .................. 16 KEY POINTS: ........................................................................ 47
Managing inhaled therapy .......................H.......................... 20
G COVID-19 AND COPD ................................................................ 48
NON-PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATMENT OF STABLE COPD ...... 22
ALGORITHMS FOR THE INITIATION AND FOLLOW R -UP OF NON- KEY POINTS: ........................................................................ 48
PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATMENT ...........P........................................... 22 REFERENCES ............................................................................. 48
OXYGEN THERAPY AND VENTILATORY S
UPPORT .................................... 23
INTRODUCTION
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is now one of the top three causes of death worldwide and 90% of these deaths occur in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs).(1,2) More than 3 million people died of COPD in 2012 accounting for 6% of all deaths globally. COPD represents an important public health challenge that is both preventable and treatable. COPD is a major cause of chronic morbidity and mortality throughout the world; many people suffer from this disease for years and die prematurely from it or its complications. Globally, the COPD burden is projected to increase in coming decades because of continued exposure to COPD risk factors and aging of the population.(3)
This Pocket Guide has been developed from the Global Strategy for the Diagnosis, Management, and Prevention of COPD (2024 Report), which aims to provide a non-biased review of the current evidence for the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of patients with COPD that can aid the clinician. Discussions of COPD and COPD management, evidence levels, and specific citations from the scientific literature are included in that source document, which is available from www.goldcopd.org.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 1
WHAT IS COPD?
KEY POINTS:
Definition
• Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a heterogeneous lung condition characterized by chronic respiratory symptoms (dyspnea, cough, sputum production and/or exacerbations) due to abnormalities of the airways (bronchitis, bronchiolitis) and/or alveoli (emphysema) that cause persistent, often progressive, airflow obstruction.
Causes and Risk Factors
• COPD results from gene(G)-environment(E) interactions occurring over the lifetime(T) of the individual (GETomics) that can damage the lungs and/or alter their normal development/aging processes.
• The main environmental exposures leading to COPD are tobacco smoking and the inhalation of
T toxic particles and gases from household and outdoor air pollution, but other environmental and
U host factors (including abnormal lung development and accelerated lung aginBg) can also contribute.
• The most relevant (albeit rare) genetic risk factor for COPD identified to date are mutations in the
SERPINA1 gene that lead to α-1 antitrypsin deficiency. A number of other genetic variants have also
D been associated with reduced lung function and risk of COPD, but th eir individual effect size is small.
Diagnostic Criteria O
• In the appropriate clinical context (see ‘Definition’ & ‘Causes and Risk Factors’ above), the presence
O of non-fully reversible airflow obstruction (i.e., FEV1/FVDC < 0.7 post-bronchodilation) measured by
- spirometry confirms the diagnosis of COPD.
• Some individuals can have respiratory symptoms and/or structural lung lesions (e.g., emphysema)
R and/or physiological abnormalities (includingE low FEV1, gas trapping, hyperinflation, reduced lung
T diffusing capacity and/or rapid FEV1 deAcline) without airflow obstruction (FEV1/FVC ≥ 0.7 post M bronchodilation). These subjects are labeled ‘Pre-COPD’. The term ‘PRISm’ (Preserved Ratio
Impaired Spirometry) has been Hproposed to identify those with normal ratio but abnormal
G spirometry. Subjects with Pre-COPD or PRISm are at risk of developing airflow obstruction over
R time, but not all of them doY.
Clinical Presentation
• Patients with COPD tCypically complain of dyspnea, activity limitation and/or cough with or without sputum production and may experience acute respiratory events characterized by increased respiratory symptoms called exacerbations that require specific preventive and therapeutic measures.
• Patients with COPD frequently harbor other comorbid diseases that influence their clinical condition and prognosis and require specific treatment as well. These comorbid conditions can mimic and/or aggravate an acute exacerbation.
New Opportunities
• COPD is a common, preventable, and treatable disease, but extensive under-diagnosis and misdiagnosis leads to patients receiving no treatment or incorrect treatment. Appropriate and earlier diagnosis of COPD can have a very significant public-health impact.
• The realization that environmental factors other than tobacco smoking can contribute to COPD, that it can start early in life and affect young individuals, and that there are precursor conditions
(Pre-COPD, PRISm), opens new windows of opportunity for its prevention, early diagnosis, and prompt and appropriate therapeutic intervention.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 1
DIAGNOSIS AND ASSESSMENT
KEY POINTS:
• A diagnosis of COPD should be considered in any patient who has dyspnea, chronic cough or sputum production, a history of recurrent lower respiratory tract infections and/or a history of exposure to risk factors for the disease, but spirometry showing the presence of a post- bronchodilator FEV1/FVC < 0.7 is mandatory to establish the diagnosis of COPD.
• The goals of the initial COPD assessment are to determine the severity of airflow obstruction, the impact of disease on the patient’s health status, and the risk of future events (such as exacerbations, hospital admissions, or death), to guide therapy.
• Additional clinical assessment, including the measurement of lung volumEes, diffusion capacity,
T exercise testing and/or lung imaging may be considered in COPD Upatients with persistent
B symptoms after initial treatment. I
• Concomitant chronic diseases (multimorbidity) occur frequently in COPD patients, including
D cardiovascular disease, skeletal muscle dysfunction, metabolic syndrome, osteoporosis,
T depression, anxiety, and lung cancer. These comorbiditOies should be actively sought, and treated
N appropriately when present, because they influence health status, hospitalizations and mortality
O independently of the severity of airflow obstrucDtion due to COPD.
DIAGNOSIS M
A diagnosis of COPD should be considered in any patient who has dyspnea, chronic cough or sputum production,
R and/or a history of exposure to rYisk factors for the disease (see Figure) but spirometry that demonstrates the presence
P of a post-bronchodilator FEVO1/FVC < 0.7 is mandatory to establish the diagnosis of COPD.(4).
CLINICAL PRESENTATION
Symptoms
Chronic dyspnea is the most characteristic symptom of COPD. Cough with sputum production is present in up to 30% of patients. These symptoms may vary from day-to-day(5) and may precede the development of airflow obstruction by many years. Individuals, particularly those with COPD risk factors, presenting with these symptoms should be examined to search for the underlying cause(s). Airflow obstruction may also be present without chronic dyspnea and/or cough and sputum production and vice versa.(6) Although COPD is defined on the basis of airflow obstruction, in practice the decision to seek medical help is usually determined by the impact of symptoms on a patient’s functional status. A person may seek medical attention either because of chronic respiratory symptoms or because of an acute, transient episode of exacerbated respiratory symptoms.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 2
Dyspnea
Dyspnea is a cardinal symptom of COPD aTn d a major cause of the disability and anxiety associated with the disease.(7)
Dyspnea comprises a sensory and an affective component.(8) Typically COPD patients describe their dyspnea as a sense
G of increased effort to breathe, cheRstI heaviness, air hunger, or gasping.(9) However, the terms used to describe dyspnea
Y may vary both individually and culturally.(9)
Dyspnea is highly prevalent across all stages of airflow obstruction.(10) It occurs particularly during exertion or physical activity. Moderate-to-severe dyspnea has been reported by > 40% of patients diagnosed with COPD in primary care.(11)
Dyspnea is complex and multiple mechanisms can be involved in its pathogenesis, including impaired respiratory mechanics as a consequence of airflow obstruction and lung hyperinflation, gas exchange abnormalities, peripheral muscle dysfunction related to deconditioning (and systemic inflammation in some patients), psychological distress, dysfunctional breathing, cardiovascular or other comorbid diseases.(12,13)
Dyspnea measured by the 5-level modified Medical Research Council scale is integrated in the GOLD clinical classification scheme (see below) because patients with high dyspnea scores incur higher healthcare resource utilization and costs.(14) Dyspnea in daily life can be measured by a number of detailed questionnaires that are more discriminant and sensitive to change.(15,16)
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 3
Chronic cough
Chronic cough is often the first symptom of COPD and is frequently discounted by the patient as an expected consequence of smoking and/or environmental exposures. Initially, the cough may be intermittent, but subsequently it may be present every day, often throughout the day. Chronic cough in COPD may be productive or non- productive.(17) In some cases, significant airflow obstruction may develop without the presence of a cough. Other causes of chronic cough are listed in the Figure below. Syncope during cough in patients with severe COPD can occur due to rapid increases in intrathoracic pressure during prolonged attacks of coughing. Coughing spells may also cause rib fractures, which are sometimes asymptomatic.
Sputum production
COPD patients commonly raise small quantities of tenacious sputum with coughing. Regular production of sputum for three or more months in two consecutive years (in the absence of any other conditions that may explain it) is the classical definition of chronic bronchitis,(18) but this is a somewhat arbitrary definition that does not reflect the entire range of sputum production that occurs in COPD (see detailed discussion in Chapter 1 of the GOLD 2024 Report).
Sputum production is often difficult to evaluate because patients may swallow sputumE rather than expectorate it, a
T habit that is subject to significant cultural and sex variation. Furthermore, sputum production can be intermittent with
B periods of flare-up interspersed with periods of remission.(19) Patients producing large volumes of sputum may have
R underlying bronchiectasis.(20,21) The presence of purulent sputum reflects an iTncrease in inflammatory mediators,(22,23)
S and its development may identify the onset of a bacterial exacerbation, though the association is relatively weak.(23,24)
Wheezing and chest tightness
Inspiratory and/or expiratory wheezes and chest tightness are symptoms that may vary between days, and over the course of a single day. Alternatively, widespread inspiratory or expiratory wheezes can be present on auscultation.
Chest tightness often follows exertion, is poorly localized, is muscular in character, and may arise from isometric contraction of the intercostal muscles. An absence of wheezing or chest tightness does not exclude a diagnosis of
COPD, nor does the presence of these symptoms confirm a diagnosis of asthma.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 4
Fatigue
Fatigue is the subjective feeling of tiredness or exhaustion and is one of the most common and distressing symptoms experienced by people with COPD.(25) People with COPD describe their fatigue as a feeling of “general tiredness” or as a feeling of being “drained of energy”.(26,27) Fatigue impacts a patient’s ability to perform activities of daily living and their quality of life.
Additional clinical features in severe disease
Weight loss, muscle mass loss, and anorexia are common problems in patients with severe and very severe COPD.(28 30) They have prognostic importance(31,32) and can also be a sign of other diseases, such as tuberculosis or lung cancer, and therefore should always be investigated. Ankle swelling may indicate the presence of cor pulmonale. Symptoms of depression and/or anxiety merit specific enquiry when obtaining the medical history because they are common in
COPD,(33) are associated with poorer health status, increased risk of exacerbations, and emergency hospital admission, and are treatable.(34)
MEDICAL HISTORY T
A detailed medical history of a new patient who is known, or suspected, to haTve COPD should include:
► Patient’s exposure to risk factors, such as smoking and envTir onmental exposures (household/outdoor).
► Past medical history, including early life events (premNaturity, low birthweight, maternal smoking during
O pregnancy, passive smoking exposure during infancy), asthma, allergy, sinusitis, or nasal polyps;
D respiratory infections in childhood; HIV; tubercu losis.
► Family history of COPD or other chronic res A piratory disease.
► Pattern of symptom development: COPD typically develops in adult life and most patients are conscious
T of increased breathlessness, moreA frequent or prolonged “winter colds,” and some social restriction for
M a number of years before seek ing medical help.
► History of exacerbations Gor previous hospitalizations for respiratory disorder. Patients may be aware of
I periodic worsening ofR symptoms even if these episodes have not been identified as exacerbations of
COPD. P
► Presence of coCmorbidities, such as heart disease, osteoporosis, musculoskeletal disorders, anxiety and depression, and malignancies that may also contribute to restriction of activity.
► Impact of disease on patient’s life, including limitation of activity, missed work and economic impact, effect on family routines, feelings of depression or anxiety, wellbeing, and sexual activity.
► Social and family support available to the patient.
► Possibilities for reducing risk factors, especially smoking cessation.
SPIROMETRY
Forced spirometry is the most reproducible and objective measurement of airflow obstruction. It is a noninvasive, reproducible, cheap, and readily available test. Good quality spirometric measurement is possible in any healthcare setting and all healthcare workers who care for people with COPD should have access to spirometry. Some of the factors needed to achieve accurate test results are summarized in the Figure below.(35,36) Despite its good sensitivity,
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 5 peak expiratory flow measurement alone cannot be reliably used as the only diagnostic test because of its weak specificity.(37,38)
The spirometric criterion for airflow obstruction selected by GOLD for the diagnosis of COPD remains a post- bronchodilator ratio of FEV1/FVC < 0.7. This criterion is simple and independent of reference values because it relates to variables measured in the same individual, and has been used in all the clinical trials that form the evidence base from which treatment recommendations are drawn. It should be noted that the use of a fixed FEV1/FVC ratio (< 0.7) to define airflow obstruction may result in over-diagnosis of COPD in the elderly,(39,40) and under-diagnosis in approximately 1% of young adults,(40-42) especially in mild disease, compared to using a cut-off based on the lower limit of normal (LLN) values for FEV1/FVC. If COPD is suspected in younger adults (age < 50 years) who have a repeated fixed ratio ≥ 0.7, comparing the ratio to a predicted LLN may help when deciding how to best manage this small number of patients.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 6
INITIAL ASSESSMENT
Once the diagnosis of COPD has been confirmed by spirometry, in order to guide therapy COPD assessment must focus on determining the following five fundamental aspects:
► Severity of airflow obstruction
► Nature and magnitude of current symptoms
► Previous history of moderate and severe exacerbations
► Blood eosinophil count
► Presence and type of other diseases (multimorbidity)
Severity of airflow obstruction
In the presence of FEV1/FVC ratio < 0.7 the assessment of airflow obstruction severity in COPD (note that this may be different from severity of the disease) is based on the post-bronchodilator value of FEV1 (% reference). The specific spirometric cut points are proposed for purposes of simplicity (Figure). E
Symptoms B
Because there is only a weak correlation between the severity of airflowS obstruction (Figure) and the symptoms
I experienced by the patient or the impairment of their health status,(D43,44) formal assessment of symptoms using
T validated questionnaires is required.
Dyspnea questionnaire: the modified Medical Research Council (mMRC) dyspnea scale
The mMRC scale was the first questionnaire developed to -measure breathlessness, which is a key symptom in many
L patients with COPD, although often unrecognized.(4A5) (Figure) Of note, the mMRC score relates well to other
I multidimensional health status measures(46) and pre
R dicts future mortality risk.(47,48)
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 7
Multidimensional questionnaires D
 It is now recognized that COPD impacts patients beyond Ldy spnea.(49) For this reason, multidimensional questionnaires
A are recommended. The most comprehensive diseaIse-specific health status questionnaires such as the Chronic
Respiratory Questionnaire (CRQ)(50) and St. GeorgeE’s Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ)(51) are important research tools
T but they are too complex to use in routine praActice. Shorter comprehensive measures, such as the COPD Assessment
Test (CAT™) and the Clinical COPD Questionnaire (CCQ©) have been developed and are suitable for use in the clinic.
Below we discuss the CAT™ and the SGHRQ.
The CAT™† is an 8-item questionYnaire that assesses health status in patients with COPD (Figure).(52) It was developed
P to be applicable worldwide and validated translations are available in a wide range of languages. The score ranges
O from 0 to 40, correlateCs very closely with the SGRQ, and has been extensively documented in numerous publications.(53)
The SGRQ is the most widely documented comprehensive measure; scores < 25 are uncommon in diagnosed COPD patients(54) and scores ≥ 25 are very uncommon in healthy persons.(55,56) Therefore, it is recommended that a symptom score equivalent to SGRQ score ≥ 25 should be used as the threshold for considering regular treatment for symptoms including breathlessness, particularly since this corresponds to the range of severity seen in patients recruited to the trials that have provided the evidence base for treatment recommendations. The equivalent cut-point for the CAT™ is
10.(57) An equivalent mMRC score cannot be calculated because a simple breathlessness cut-point cannot equate to a comprehensive symptom score cut-point. The great majority of patients with an SGRQ of ≥ 25 will have an mMRC of
≥ 1; however patients with mMRC < 1 may also have a number of other COPD symptoms.(58) For this reason, the use of a comprehensive symptom assessment is recommended. However, because use of the mMRC is widespread, an
The COPD Assessment Test was developed by a multi-disciplinary group of international experts in COPD supported by GSK. COPD Assessment Test and the CAT™ logo is a trademark of the
GlaxoSmithKline group of companies. © 2009 GlaxoSmithKline. All rights reserved. GSK activities with respect to the COPD Assessment Test™ are overseen by a governance board that includes independent external experts, one of whom chairs the board.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 8 mMRC of ≥ 2 is still included as a threshold for separating “less breathlessness” from “more breathlessness.”
Nevertheless, users are cautioned that assessment of other symptoms is required.(58)
Blood eosinophil count Y
A number of studies haveC shown that blood eosinophil counts predict the magnitude of the effect of ICS (added on top of regular maintenance bronchodilator treatment) in preventing future exacerbations and blood eosinophil counts are recommended by GOLD to guide the use of ICS as part of pharmacological management.(59-64)
There is evidence that on average blood eosinophil counts are higher in COPD patients, although there is marked overlap with controls.(65,66) Higher blood eosinophil counts in COPD patients are associated with increased lung eosinophil numbers and the presence of higher levels of markers of type-2 inflammation in the airways, although the concordance between blood and lung/airways T2 biomarkers is not strict.(67,68) These differences in airway inflammation may explain the differential response to ICS treatment according to blood eosinophil counts.(69)
The repeatability of blood eosinophil counts in a large primary care population appears reasonable,(70) although greater variability is observed at higher thresholds.(71) Better reproducibility is observed at the lower thresholds (e.g.,
100 cells/µL).(72) Blood eosinophil counts can help clinicians estimate the likelihood of a beneficial preventive response to the addition of ICS to regular bronchodilator treatment, and thus can be used as a biomarker in conjunction with clinical assessment when making decisions regarding ICS use.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 9
Cohort studies have produced differing results with regard to the ability of blood eosinophils to predict future exacerbation outcomes, with either no relationship(73) or a positive relationship reported.(74,75) Differences between studies are likely to be related to different previous exacerbation histories and ICS use. There is insufficient evidence to recommend that blood eosinophils should be used to predict future exacerbation risk on an individual basis in COPD patients. Greater FEV1 decline was observed in mild to moderate COPD patients with higher blood eosinophil counts in a population where ICS use was low,(76) highlighting the possible usefulness of blood eosinophil counts as a prognostic biomarker for lung function decline when not confounded by ICS use. In younger individuals without COPD, higher blood eosinophil counts are associated with increased risk of subsequent development of COPD.(77)
Multimorbidity
People with COPD often suffer other concomitant chronic diseases (multimorbidity). This can occur in patients with mild, moderate or severe airflow obstruction.(54) Multimorbidity influences mortality and hospitalizations independently of the severity of airflow obstruction,(78) and deserves specific treatment. Therefore, comorbid conditions should be looked for routinely, and treated appropriately if present, in any patient with COPD.
Recommendations for the diagnosis, assessment of severity, and management of individual comorbid diseases are the
E same as for patients without COPD.
Frequent multimorbid diseases in COPD include cardiovascular disease,(79) mIetabolic syndrome, osteoporosis,
R depression and anxiety, likely in relation to shared risk factors (e.g., aging, smToking, alcohol, diet and inactivity).(80-83)
Besides, COPD itself may increase the risk for other comorbid diseases (eD.gI., COPD (particularly emphysema) and lung cancer).(84,85) Whether the association between COPD and lung canceTr is due to common risk factors (e.g., smoking),
O involvement of shared susceptibility genes and/or impaired clearNance of carcinogens is unclear. COPD can also have significant extrapulmonary (systemic) effects including weighOt loss, nutritional abnormalities, and skeletal muscle
D dysfunction. The latter is characterized by both sarcopen ia (loss of muscle cells) and abnormal function of the
- remaining cells.(86) Its causes are likely multifactorial (e.Lg., inactivity, poor diet, inflammation and/or hypoxia) and it
A can contribute to exercise intolerance and poor hReaIlth status in patients with COPD. Importantly, skeletal muscle
E dysfunction is a modifiable source of exercise intolerance by rehabilitation.(87) A more detailed description of the
A management of COPD and comorbidities is provided in Chapter 5 of the GOLD 2024 Report.
Combined initial COPD assessmHent
In 2011, GOLD proposed to move from the simple spirometric grading system for disease severity assessment and
Y treatment to a combined assesPsment strategy based on the level of symptoms (mMRC or CAT™), the severity of airflow
O obstruction (GOLD gradesC 1-4), and the frequency of previous exacerbations. This classification was proposed to guide initial pharmacological treatment. The main step forward achieved by this combined assessment strategy was to incorporate patient-reported outcomes and highlight the importance of exacerbation prevention in the management of COPD. The initial version of the combined assessment relied on both the severity of airflow obstruction (GOLD grades 1-4) and the frequency of previous exacerbations to assess exacerbation risk.
The severity of airflow obstruction was subsequently removed from this combined assessment scheme considering its lower precision at the individual level (versus that at a population level) to predict outcomes and drive treatment decisions, while complexifying the use of the classification by clinicians.(44,88-90)
In the 2023 GOLD report, GOLD proposed a further evolution of the ABCD combined assessment tool that recognized the clinical relevance of exacerbations, independently of the level of symptoms of the patient. The Figure presents this proposal. The A and B groups remained unchanged, but the C and D groups were merged into a single group termed “E” to highlight the clinical relevance of exacerbations. It was acknowledged that this proposal would have to be validated by appropriate clinical research.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 10
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 11
PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT OF COPD
KEY POINTS:
• All individuals who smoke should be strongly encouraged and supported to quit. Nicotine replacement and pharmacotherapy reliably increase long-term smoking abstinence rates.
Legislative smoking bans and counseling, delivered by healthcare professionals, improve quit rates.
There is no evidence to support the effectiveness and safety of e-cigarettes as a smoking cessation aid at present.
• The main treatment goals are to reduce symptoms and future risk of exacerbations. The management strategy of stable COPD should be predominantly based on the assessment of symptoms and the history of exacerbations.
• Pharmacotherapy can reduce COPD symptoms, reduce the frequency and severity of
E exacerbations, and improve health status and exercise tolerance. Data sugTgest beneficial effects on
U rates of lung function decline and mortality.
• Each pharmacological treatment regimen should be individualizTed and guided by the severity of
S symptoms, risk of exacerbations, side-effects, comorbidities, drug availability and cost, and the
D patient’s response, preference, and ability to use various drug delivery devices.
• Inhaler technique needs to be assessed regularly. N
• COVID-19 vaccines are highly effective against SARS-CoV-2 infection and people with COPD should
- have the COVID-19 vaccination in line with nLa tional recommendations.
• Influenza vaccination and pneumococcal vaccination decrease the incidence of lower respiratory
E tract infections. T
• The CDC recommends: the Tda p vaccination (dTaP/dTPa; pertussis, tetanus and diptheria) for COPD
T patients who were not vaHccinated in adolescence; routine use of shingles vaccine in all COPD
G patients; the new respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine for individuals over 60 years and/or with
R chronic heart or lung disease.
• Pulmonary rehabilitation with its core components, including exercise training combined with
C disease-specific education, improves exercise capacity, symptoms, and quality of life across all grades of COPD severity.
• In patients with severe resting chronic hypoxemia (PaO ≤ 55 mmHg or < 60 mmHg if there is cor pulmonale or secondary polycythemia), long-term oxygen therapy improves survival.
• In patients with stable COPD and resting or exercise-induced moderate desaturation, long-term oxygen treatment should not be prescribed routinely. However, individual patient factors must be considered when evaluating the patient’s need for supplemental oxygen.
• In patients with severe chronic hypercapnia and a history of hospitalization for acute respiratory failure, long-term non-invasive ventilation may decrease mortality and prevent re-hospitalization.
• In select patients with advanced emphysema refractory to optimized medical care, surgical or bronchoscopic interventional treatments may be beneficial.
• Palliative approaches are effective in controlling symptoms in advanced COPD.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 12
INTRODUCTION
The aim of COPD management is to reduce symptoms and future risk (see Figure). COPD patients should have an assessment of the severity of their airflow obstruction, symptoms, history of exacerbations, exposure to risk factors and comorbidities to guide management.
Pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapy should- b e adjusted as necessary (see below) and further reviews
L undertaken (see Figure). This section contains recomAmendations on how to manage patients with COPD in clinical
I practice and summarizes the evidence about the efRfectiveness and safety of maintenance and prevention strategies
E in COPD on which the recommendations are basTed.
IDENTIFY AND REDUCE EXPOSURE TO RISK FACTORS
Identification and reduction oPf exposure to risk factors is important not only for the primary prevention of COPD but
O also as part of the manageCment of a COPD patient. Cigarette smoking is the most commonly encountered and easily identifiable risk factor for COPD, and smoking cessation should be continually encouraged for all individuals who smoke. Reduction of total personal exposure to occupational dusts, fumes, and gases, and to household and outdoor air pollutants, should also be addressed (see Figure).
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 13
Smoking cessation
Smoking cessation is a key intePrvention for all COPD patients who continue to smoke. Healthcare providers are pivotal
O in delivering smoking cessCation messages and interventions and should encourage patients to quit at every available opportunity.
A significant proportion of people with COPD continue to smoke despite knowing they have the disease (approximately
40% of those with COPD are current smokers), and this behavior has a negative impact on prognosis and progression of the disease.(91) Smoking cessation has the greatest capacity to influence the natural history of COPD, it also improves daily symptoms,(92) and decreases the frequency of exacerbations.(93)
For smokers with COPD, the quitting may be more challenging than for smokers without COPD due to greater nicotine dependence, lower self-efficacy and lower self-esteem.(94-96) In addition, it has been reported that depression is more common in smokers with COPD(97) and this could contribute to failed attempts to quit.(97,98) Despite these adverse conditions, if effective time and resources are dedicated to smoking cessation, long-term quit rates of 14% to 27% have been reported.(98)
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 14
Vaccinations
People with COPD should receive all recommended vaccinations in line with the relevant local guidelines (see Figure).
PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATAMENT OF STABLE COPD
We propose a tailored approach to initiate tAreatment based on the level of symptoms and risk for exacerbations.
Treatment can be escalated/de-escalated based on the presence of the predominant symptoms (treatable traits) of
T breathlessness and exercise limitation, Hand the continued occurrence of exacerbations whilst on maintenance therapy.
The basis for these recommendations, which propose an organized approach to treatment, was partly derived from
R evidence generated from randomYized controlled trials. However, as these recommendations are intended to support
P clinician decision-making, they also incorporate expert advice based on clinical experience.
Initial pharmacotherapy should be based on the patient’s GOLD group (see Figure). Patients should be offered guidance and follow up on self-management of breathlessness, and stress management, and they should be given a written action plan. Comorbidities should also be managed as per specific guidelines, irrespective of the presence of
Patients should be reviewed after a suitable interval (shorter in more severe patients and longer in less severe patients) and their current level of symptoms (using either the CAT or mMRC scores) and exacerbation frequency assessed. The effect of treatment and possible adverse effects should be evaluated, and comorbidities reassessed.
Inhaler technique, adherence to prescribed therapy (both pharmacological and non-pharmacological), smoking status and continued exposure to risk factors should be checked at each clinical visit. Physical activity should be encouraged and referral for pulmonary rehabilitation considered in severe patients. The need for oxygen therapy, non-invasive ventilatory support, lung volume reduction and palliative approaches should also be considered individually, and the
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 15 action plan should be updated accordingly. Spirometry should be repeated at least annually. If the patient is already receiving bronchodilator treatment, the latter should not be interrupted for performing spirometry.
We no longer refer to asthma and COPD overlap (ACO), instead we emphasize that asthma and COPD are different disorders, although they may share some common treatable traits and clinical features (e.g., eosinophilia, some degree of reversibility). Asthma and COPD may coexist in an individual patient. If a concurrent diagnosis of asthma is suspected, pharmacotherapy should primarily follow asthma guidelines.
Algorithms for the initiation and follow-up of
C pharmacological treatment
Further information on the evidence that underpins these recommendations is given later in Chapter 3 of the GOLD
2024 Report in the section entitled “Overview of the evidence: Pharmacotherapy”.
Initial pharmacological management
A proposal for the INITIATION of pharmacological management of COPD according to the individualized assessment of symptoms and exacerbation risk following the ABE scheme, and also accounting for blood eosinophil count, is shown
(see Figure). It is an attempt to provide clinical guidance. There is no high-quality evidence such as randomized controlled trials to support initial pharmacological treatment strategies in newly diagnosed COPD patients.
Group A
► All Group A patients should be offered bronchodilator treatment based on its effect on breathlessness. This can be
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 16 either a short- or a long-acting bronchodilator. If available and affordable a long-acting bronchodilator is the preferred choice except in patients with very occasional breathlessness.
► This should be continued if benefit is documented.
Group B
► Treatment should be initiated with a LABA+LAMA combination. It has been shown in a RCT that in patients with ≤ 1 moderate exacerbation in the year before the study and a CAT™ ≥ 10 LABA+LAMA is superior to a LAMA with regard to several endpoints.(99) Therefore, providing there are no issues regarding availability, cost and side-effects
LABA+LAMA is the recommended initial pharmacological choice.
► If a LABA+LAMA combination is not considered appropriate, there is no evidence to recommend one class of long- acting bronchodilators over another (LABA or LAMA) for initial relief of symptoms in this group of patients. In the individual patient, the choice should depend on the patient’s perception of symptom relief.
► Group B patients are likely to have comorbidities that may add to their symptomatoloEgy and impact their prognosis,
T and these possibilities should be investigated and treated, if present, by following national and international
U guidelines.(100,101) B
Group E
► A Cochrane systematic review and network meta-analysis comparing dual combination therapy versus mono long T
O acting bronchodilators showed that the LABA+LAMA combination was the highest ranked treatment group to reduce
COPD exacerbations.(102) Therefore, provided there are noO i ssues regarding availability, cost and side-effects
LABA+LAMA is the preferred choice for initial therapy in grouDp E patients.
► Use of LABA+ICS in COPD is not encouraged. If thIere is an indication for an ICS, then LABA+LAMA+ICS has been
R shown to be superior to LABA+ICS and is thereforeE the preferred choice.(64,103)
► Consider LABA+LAMA+ICS in group E if eos ≥ 300 cells/µL (practical recommendation). As detailed later in this
T section, the effect of ICS on exacerbatioHn prevention is correlated to blood eosinophil count. There are no direct data
G in the literature concerning initiation of triple therapy in newly diagnosed patients. However, we think available studies
R performed mostly in treated paYtients provide a rationale for considering this treatment option as initial therapy for
P patients with a high eosinopOhil count (≥ 300 cells/μL).
► If patients with COPD have concomitant asthma they should be treated like patients with asthma. Under these circumstances the use of an ICS is mandatory.
Rescue short-acting bronchodilators should be prescribed to all patients for immediate symptom relief.
Following implementation of therapy, patients should be reassessed for attainment of treatment goals and identification of any barriers for successful treatment (see Figure). Following review of the patient’s response to treatment initiation, adjustments may be needed.
This is guided by the principles of first review and assess, then adjust if necessary (see Figure):
► Review
▪ Review symptoms (dyspnea) and exacerbation risk (previous history, blood eosinophils).
► Assess
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 17
▪ Assess inhaler technique and adherence, and the role of non-pharmacological approaches (covered earlier in this section).
► Adjust
▪ Adjust pharmacological treatment, including escalation or de-escalation. Switching inhaler device or molecules within the same class (e.g., using a different long-acting bronchodilator) may be considered as appropriate. Any change in treatment requires a subsequent review of the clinical response, including side effects.
Follow-up pharmacological manHagement
A separate algorithm is provided for FOLLOW-UP treatment, where the management is based on two key treatable
R traits: persistence of dyspnea aYnd occurrence of exacerbations (see Figure). These follow-up recommendations are
P designed to facilitate managOement of patients taking maintenance treatment(s), whether early after initial treatment or after years of follow-uCp. These recommendations incorporate the evidence from clinical trials and the use of peripheral blood eosinophil counts as a biomarker to guide the use of ICS therapy for exacerbation prevention (see more detailed information regarding blood eosinophil counts as a predictor of ICS effects later in this section).
The Figure presents suggested escalation and de-escalation strategies based on available efficacy and safety data. The response to treatment escalation should always be reviewed. Patients, in whom treatment modification is considered, in particular de-escalation, should be under close medical supervision. We are fully aware that treatment escalation has not been systematically tested; trials of de-escalation are also limited and only include ICS.
The follow-up pharmacological treatment algorithm (see Figure) can be applied to any patient who is already taking maintenance treatment(s) irrespective of the GOLD group allocated at treatment initiation. The need to target primarily dyspnea/activity limitation or to prevent further exacerbations should be evaluated in each patient. If a change in treatment is considered necessary, then select the corresponding algorithm for dyspnea (Figure left column) or exacerbations (Figure right column); the exacerbation algorithm should also be used for patients who require a change in treatment for both dyspnea and exacerbations. Identify which box corresponds to the patient’s current
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 18 treatment and follow the suggested algorithm.
Dyspnea
► For patients with persistent breathlessness or exercise limitation on bronchodilator monotherapy,(104) the use of two long acting bronchodilators is recommended.
▪ If the addition of a second long acting bronchodilator does not improve symptoms, we suggest considering switching inhaler device or molecules.
► At all stages, dyspnea due to other causes (not COPD) should be investigated and treated appropriately. Inhaler technique and adherence should be considered as causes of inadequate treatment response. Rehabilitation should also be considered.
Exacerbations
► For patients with persistent exacerbations on bronchodilator monotherapy, escalation to LABA+LAMA is recommended.
► In patients who develop further exacerbations on LABA+LAMA therapy we suggest escalation to LABA+LAMA+ICS.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 19
A beneficial response after the addition of ICS may be observed at blood eosinophil counts ≥ 100 cells/µL, with a greater magnitude of response more likely with higher eosinophil counts.(64)
► If patients treated with LABA+LAMA+ICS (or those with eos < 100 cells/µL) still have exacerbations the following options may be considered:
▪ Add roflumilast. This may be considered in patients with an FEV1 < 50% predicted and chronic bronchitis,(105) particularly if they have experienced at least one hospitalization for an exacerbation in the previous year.(106,107)
▪ Add a macrolide. The best available evidence exists for the use of azithromycin, especially in those who are not current smokers.(108,109) Consideration to the development of resistant organisms should be factored into decision-making.
▪ Withdrawing ICS can be considered if pneumonia or other considerable side-effects develop. If blood eosinophils are ≥ 300 cells/µL de-escalation is more likely to be associated with the development of exacerbations.(110,111) Carefully consider the dose of ICS used to reduce the potential of ICS related side effects that are more frequent at higher doses.
Patients under treatment with LABA+ICS T
► If a patient with COPD and no features of asthma has been treated – for whatIever reason – with LABA+ICS and is
R well controlled in terms of symptoms and exacerbations, continuation with LATBA+ICS is an option. However, if the
S patient has: I
▪ Further exacerbations: treatment should be escalated tOo LABA+LAMA+ICS if the blood eosinophil count is ≥ 100 cells/µL or switched to LABA+LAMA if it is < 1N00 cells/µL.
▪ Major symptoms: switching to LABA+LAMA shouDld be considered.
Managing inhaled therapy A
Most of the drugs used to treat COPD are inhaled. Thus, appropriate use of inhaler devices is crucial to optimize the
A benefit-risk ratio of inhaled therapy. Achieving this goal requires choosing the appropriate device, providing education,
M checking inhaler use regularly and, whenev er necessary, adapting education and device (see Figure).
There are currently at least 33 diffRerIent inhaled therapies containing different bronchodilators (both short- and long Y acting) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) alone or in combinations (see Figure). In addition, at least 22 different inhaler
P devices are available,(112) inOcluding nebulizers, metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) used with or without valved holding
C chamber (VHC)/spacers, breath-actuated MDIs (BAIs), soft mist inhalers (SMIs) and dry powder inhalers (DPIs)(113) In multi-dose DPIs, the powder is contained in a reservoir or in individual blisters.(113) More information about inhalation devices is available on the Asthma + Lung UK website.(114)
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 20
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 21
NON-PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATMENT OF STABLE COPD
Non-pharmacological treatment is complementary to pharmacological treatment and should form part of the comprehensive management of COPD.
After receiving a diagnosis of COPD a patient should be given further information about the condition. Physicians should emphasize the importance of a smoke free environment, empower adherence to prescribed medication, ensure proper inhaler technique, promote physical activity, prescribe vaccinations, and refer patients to pulmonary rehabilitation.
Algorithms for the initiation and follow-up of non- pharmacological treatment
Some relevant non-pharmacological measures based on the patient’s GOLD A,BT,E group AT DIAGNOSIS are
U summarized in the Figure below. B
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 22
Recommendations for FOLLOW UP non-pharmacological treatments are based on a patient’s treatable traits e.g., symptoms and exacerbations (see Figure).
Oxygen therapy and ventilatory support
Oxygen therapy
The long-term administration of oxygen (> 15 hours per day) to patients with chronic respiratory failure has been shown to increase survival in patients with severe resting hypoxemia.(115) Long-term oxygen therapy does not lengthen time to death or first hospitalization or provide sustained benefit for any of the measured outcomes in patients with stable COPD and resting or exercise-induced moderate arterial oxygen desaturation.(116) Breathlessness may be relieved in COPD patients who are either mildly hypoxemic, or non-hypoxemic but do not otherwise qualify for home oxygen therapy, when oxygen is given during exercise training; however, studies have shown no improvement of breathlessness in daily life and no benefit on health related quality of life (see Figure).(116-118) There are contradictory studies although the majority do not demonstrate changes.(119)
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 23
Although air travel is safe for most patients with chronic respiratory failure who are on long-term oxygen therapy,(120)
D patients should ideally maintain an in-flight PaO of at le-a st 6.7 kPa (50 mmHg). Studies indicate that this can be
L achieved in those with moderate to severe hypoxemiaA at sea level by supplementary oxygen at 3 liters/min by nasal
I cannula or 31% by Venturi facemask.(121) Those wiRth a resting oxygen saturation > 95% and 6-minute walk oxygen
E saturation > 84% may travel without further Tassessment,(122) although it is important to emphasize that resting
A oxygenation at sea level does not exclude tMhe development of severe hypoxemia when travelling by air.(120) Careful consideration should be given to any comTor bidity that may impair oxygen delivery to tissues (e.g., cardiac impairment,
H anemia). Also, walking along the aisleG may profoundly aggravate hypoxemia.(123)
Long-term oxygen therapy (LTPOT) is indicated for stable patients who have:
► PaO at or below 55 mmHg (7.3 kPa) or SaO at or below 88%, with or without hypercapnia confirmed
2 C 2 twice over a three-week period; or
► PaO between 55 mmHg (7.3 kPa) and 60 mmHg (8.0 kPa), or SaO of 88%, if there is evidence of pulmonary
2 2 hypertension, peripheral edema suggesting congestive cardiac failure, or polycythemia (hematocrit >
Once placed on LTOT the patient should be re-evaluated after 60 to 90 days with repeat arterial blood gas (ABG) or oxygen saturation measurements while inspiring room air and the level of oxygen flow that had been prescribed to determine if oxygen is still indicated and if so, therapeutic. An appropriate algorithm for the prescription of oxygen to
COPD patients is shown in the Figure below.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 24
Ventilatory support T
Noninvasive ventilation (NIV) is occasionall y used in patients with stable very severe COPD.(124) NIV may be considered
H of some use in a selected group of patients, particularly in those with pronounced daytime hypercapnia and recent
G hospitalization, although a systematIic review was unable to support or refute this.(125) In contrast, in patients with both
COPD and obstructive sleep apnYea there are clear indications for continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP).(126,127)
During exacerbations of COPD
NIV in the form of noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NPPV) is the standard of care for decreasing morbidity and mortality in patients hospitalized with an exacerbation of COPD and acute respiratory failure(128-131) (see also
Chapter 4 of the GOLD 2024 Report).
Stable patient
In patients with both COPD and obstructive sleep apnea there are clear benefits associated with the use of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) to improve both survival and the risk of hospital admissions.(126,127)
Whether to use NPPV chronically at home to treat patients with acute on chronic respiratory failure following hospitalization remains undetermined and outcome may be affected by persistent hypercapnia.(132) A multicenter prospective RCT of COPD patients with persistent hypercapnia (PaCO > 53 mmHg) after 2-4 weeks of hospital discharge because an acute episode of exacerbation, compared the effects of home NIV plus oxygen compared to home oxygen alone on time to readmission or death.(132) Results showed that adding home NIV to oxygen therapy significantly prolonged the time to readmission or death within 12 months.(132) A systematic review and meta-analysis
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 25 of these studies confirms that NIV decreases mortality and risk of hospitalization. The best candidate subgroups (by recent hospitalization history or PaCO ) remain unclear.(131)
Two previous retrospective studies(133,134) and two of three RCTs(132,135-138) reported reductions in re-hospitalization and improved survival with using NPPV post-hospitalization. Two studies reported decreases in mortality and hospitalization rates while another showed no benefit of NPPV for survival.(136) Several factors may account for discrepancies: differences in patient selection, underpowered studies, NPPV settings incapable of achieving adequate ventilation, and poor adherence with NPPV therapy.(139) NPPV when indicated should be instituted and monitored under the direction of personnel familiar with the process and the devices utilized.(140,141)
SUPPORTIVE, PALLIATIVE, END-OF-LIFE & HOSPICE CARE
Therapeutic inteYrventions that reduce COPD mortality
COPD is the third leading cause of death worldwide, causing 3.23 million deaths in 2019. As we move towards targeting subgroups of COPD patients for specific therapy, it is important to know which modifiable factors (treatable traits) are associated with mortality. A large clinical database study of COPD in primary care has demonstrated that the highest magnitude of risk of all-cause mortality, COPD- and CVD-related mortality, was in individuals with increased severity and frequency of COPD exacerbations, GOLD groups B and D, and those with lower FEV1 (particularly GOLD 3 and
4).(142) We are still learning about the mechanisms that cause death in patients with COPD. Demonstrating benefits of therapeutic modalities on mortality in RCTs has been difficult, requiring large populations and/or long follow-up duration and/or highly selected populations with a high but preventable risk of death during follow-up. In addition, the low number of events makes the analysis of disease specific mortality (e.g., respiratory or cardiovascular) in most trials difficult. The Figure below presents a summary of pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapies with evidence of efficacy in reducing the mortality of COPD patients.
Pharmacological therapy
Previous studies such as the TORCH clinical trial(143) and the SUMMIT trial(144) failed to provide evidence for the efficacy of a LABA+ICS combination compared to placebo in reducing mortality (primary outcome) in COPD patients. These
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 26 trials had no requirement for a history of previous exacerbations. In the largest LAMA treatment trial UPLIFT, the intention to treat analysis, i.e., 30 days after completion of the study period, did not demonstrate a reduction in mortality (secondary outcome) compared to placebo. The majority of patients included in this study utilized an ICS.
Recently, evidence has emerged from two large randomized clinical trials, IMPACT(64) and ETHOS,(103) that fixed-dose inhaled triple combinations (LABA+LAMA+ICS), reduce all-cause mortality compared to dual inhaled long-acting bronchodilation therapy. These trials were enriched for symptomatic patients (CAT ≥ 10) with a history of frequent (≥
2 moderate exacerbations) and/or severe exacerbations (≥ 1 exacerbation requiring a hospital admission) (see Figure).
Non-pharmacological therapy
Smoking cessation. From the Lung Health Study, a randomized clinical trial (RCT) that included asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic COPD patients treated with a 10-week smoking cessation intervention program and followed up to 14.5 years, the overall mortality rate was reduced in the smoking cessation intervention group compared to the usual care group.(145)
Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR). A systematic review of RCTs reported a reduction in mortality for patients who had PR initiated during hospitalization or 4 weeks after discharge compared to those who did not have PR.(146-149) These results
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 27 have been corroborated by real-world evidence, from a large population-based cohort of 190,000 patients hospitalized for COPD, in whom initiation of PR within 90 days of discharge, while rare, was associated with a statistically significant reduced mortality.(150)
Long term oxygen therapy (LTOT). Survival benefit of LTOT in COPD demonstrated in two studies in the early 1980s laid the foundation for long-term domiciliary management of hypoxemia. The Nocturnal Oxygen Therapy Trial
(NOTT)(≥ 19 hours of continuous oxygen compared to ≤ 13 hours)(151) and the Medical Research Council (MRC)(≥ 15 hours compared to no oxygen),(152) two RCTs in COPD patients with resting PaO ≤ 55 mmHg or < 60 mmHg with cor pulmonale or secondary polycythemia showed a survival benefit. No significant benefit of LTOT was found in patients with moderate desaturation.(153)
Non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NPPV). Recent meta-analyses(131,154) have shown positive results of long- term NPPV in patients with stable COPD. Although RCT results have being inconsistent on survival, larger trials with mortality as the primary outcome, enrolling patients with marked hypercapnia and applying higher IPAP levels demonstrated a reduction of mortality.(136,155)
Lung transplantation and lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS). Because of the absence of randomized trials,
U observational data has been used to estimate the survival benefit of lung tranBsplantation, relative to remaining
“untransplanted.” The survival benefit of transplantation varied by disease group, with a 2-year expected benefit in
2/5 of transplanted COPD patients.(156)
LVRS has been shown to prolong survival compared to medical therOapy in a very select group of patients with severe
COPD, predominantly upper lobe emphysema, and low exercise capacity.(157) Among patients with non-upper-lobe
O emphysema and high exercise capacity, mortality was higherD in the surgery group than in the medical-therapy group.
In summary, available data suggest that several pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments may reduce
R mortality. Further analyses or studies may help Eto determine whether specific patient subgroups demonstrate a
T greater survival benefit.
Overview of the evGidence: Pharmacotherapy
Pharmacotherapies for smoking cessation
Pharmacological treatments for smoking cessation include controller medications aimed at achieving long-term abstinence (nicotine patch, bupropion, and varenicline) and those that rapidly relieve acute withdrawal symptoms
(short-acting nicotine). Please see Chapter 3 of the the GOLD 2024 Report for further information on Nicotine replacement products, Vaping/E-cigarettes, and Pharmacological products (nicotine replacement therapy, bupropion, nortriptyline and varenicline).
Pharmacotherapy to treat stable COPD
Pharmacotherapy for COPD is currently focused on symptoms and exacerbations. FEV1 decline has been considered a surrogate for the natural course of the disease. In this context, studies have been performed to evaluate if pharmacotherapy may have an impact on the change of FEV1 over time. Individual clinical trials have not been sufficiently conclusive to show that pharmacotherapy can reduce the rate of FEV1 decline.(158-162) However, a systematic review combining data from 9 studies demonstrated a reduction in the rate of FEV1 decline of 5.0 mL/year in active treatment arms compared with placebo arms.(163) The difference between long-acting bronchodilator containing treatment arms and placebo arms was 4.9 mL/year. The difference between inhaled corticosteroid
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 28 containing treatment arms and placebo arms was 7.3 mL/year. Although we need to be aware of the potential benefit of pharmacotherapy in reducing the rate of lung function decline, further research is needed to know which patients are likely to benefit.
The classes of medications commonly used to treat COPD are shown in the Figure. The choice within each class depends on the availability and cost of medication, and the clinical response balanced against side effects. Each treatment regimen needs to be individualized as the relationship between severity of symptoms, airflow obstruction, and severity of exacerbations can differ between patients. The WHO has defined a minimum set of interventions for the management of stable COPD in primary care.(164)
Bronchodilators
Bronchodilators are medications that increase FEV1 and/or change other spirometric variables (see Figure). They act by altering airway smooth muscle tone and the improvements in expiratory flow reflect widening of the airways rather than changes in lung elastic recoil. Bronchodilators tend to reduce dynamic hyperinflation at rest and during exercise,(165,166) and improve exercise performance. The extent of these changes, especially in patients with severe and very severe COPD, is not easy to predict from the improvement in FEV1measuredat res
E t.(167,168)
Bronchodilator dose-response (FEV1 change) curves are relatively flat with aIll classes of bronchodilators.(169-175)
Increasing the dose of either a beta -agonist or an anticholinergic by an orderT of magnitude, especially when given by
2 S a nebulizer, appears to provide subjective benefit in acute episodesD(17I6) but is not necessarily helpful in stable disease.(177) Bronchodilator medications in COPD are most often gTiven on a regular basis to prevent or reduce
O symptoms. Toxicity is also dose-related (see Figure). Use of shoNrt acting bronchodilators on a regular basis is not generally recommended. O
-agonists
The principal action of beta -agonists is to relax aRirway smooth muscle by stimulating beta -adrenergic receptors,
E which increases cyclic AMP and produces functioTnal antagonism to bronchoconstriction. There are short-acting (SABA)
A and long-acting (LABA) beta
-agonists. The eMffect of SABAs usually wears off within 4 to 6 hours.(171,172) Regular and as- needed use of SABAs improve FEV1 and sTym ptoms.(178) LABAs show duration of action of 12 or more hours and do not
H preclude additional benefit from as-nGeeded SABA therapy.(179)
Formoterol and salmeterol areP twice-daily LABAs that significantly improve FEV1 and lung volumes, dyspnea, health
O status, exacerbation rate and number of hospitalizations,(180) but have no effect on mortality or rate of decline of lung
C function. Indacaterol is a once daily LABA that improves breathlessness,(181,182) health status(182) and exacerbation rate.(182) Some patients experience cough following the inhalation of indacaterol. Oladaterol and vilanterol are additional once daily LABAs that improve lung function and symptoms.(183,184)
Adverse effects
Stimulation of beta -adrenergic receptors can produce resting sinus tachycardia and has the potential to precipitate cardiac rhythm disturbances in susceptible patients. Exaggerated somatic tremor is troublesome in some older patients treated with higher doses of beta -agonists, regardless of route of administration. Although hypokalemia can occur, especially when treatment is combined with thiazide diuretics,(185) and oxygen consumption can be increased under resting conditions in patients with chronic heart failure,(186) these metabolic effects decrease over time (i.e., show tachyphylaxis). Mild falls in partial pressure of oxygen (PaO ) can occur after administration of both SABAs and
LABAs(187) but the clinical significance of these changes is uncertain. Despite prior concerns related to the use of beta - agonists in the management of asthma, no association between beta -agonist use and loss of lung function or increased mortality has been reported in COPD.(180,188,189)
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 29
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 30
Antimuscarinic drugs O
Antimuscarinic drugs block the bronchoconstrictor effects of acetylcholine on M3 muscarinic receptors expressed in airway smooth muscle.(190) Short-acting antimuscarinics (SAMAs), namely ipratropium and oxitropium, also block the inhibitory neuronal receptor M2, which potentially can cause vagally induced bronchoconstriction.(191) Long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs), such as tiotropium, aclidinium, glycopyrronium bromide (also known as glycopyrrolate), umeclidinium and revefenacin have prolonged binding to M3 muscarinic receptors, with faster dissociation from M2 muscarinic receptors, thus prolonging the duration of bronchodilator effect.(190)
A systematic review of RCTs concluded that ipratropium, a short acting muscarinic antagonist, alone provided small benefits over short-acting beta -agonist in terms of lung function, health status and requirement for oral steroids.(192)
Among LAMAs, some are administered once a day (tiotropium, umeclidinium, revefenacin), others twice a day
(aclidinium), and some are approved for once daily dosing in some countries and twice daily dosing in others
(glycopyrrolate).(190,193) LAMA treatments improve symptoms, including cough and sputum and health status.(190,194,195)
They also improve the effectiveness of pulmonary rehabilitation(196,197) and reduce exacerbations and related hospitalizations.(194) Clinical trials have shown a greater effect on exacerbation rates for LAMA treatment (tiotropium) versus LABA treatment.(198,199)
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 31
Adverse effects
Inhaled anticholinergic drugs are poorly absorbed which limits the troublesome systemic effects observed with atropine.(190,200) Extensive use of this class of agents in a wide range of doses and clinical settings has shown them to be very safe. The main side effect is dryness of mouth.(191,201) Although occasional urinary symptoms have been reported, there are no data to prove a true causal relationship.(202) Some patients using ipratropium report a bitter, metallic taste. An unexpected small increase in cardiovascular events in COPD patients regularly treated with ipratropium bromide has been reported.(203,204) In a large, long-term clinical trial in COPD patients, tiotropium added to other standard therapies had no effect on cardiovascular risk.(162) Although there were some initial concerns regarding the safety of tiotropium delivery via the Respimat®(205) inhaler, the findings of a large trial observed no difference in mortality or exacerbation rates when comparing tiotropium in a dry-powder inhaler and the Respimat® inhaler.(206) There are less safety data available for the other LAMAs, but the rate of anti-cholinergic side effects for drugs in this class appears to be low and generally similar. Use of solutions with a facemask can precipitate acute glaucoma, probably as a direct result of the contact between the solution and the eye.(207-209)
Methylxanthines
Controversy remains about the exact effects of xanthine derivatives. They may act as nTon-selective phosphodiesterase
U inhibitors, but have also been reported to have a range of non-bronchodilator actions, the significance of which is
B disputed.(210-212) Data on duration of action for conventional, or even slow-releRasIe, xanthine preparations are lacking
T in COPD. S
Theophylline, the most commonly used methylxanthine, is metabolized by cytochrome P450 mixed function oxidases.
Clearance of the drug declines with age. Many other physioNlogical variables and drugs modify theophylline
O metabolism. Enhanced inspiratory muscle function has been reported in patients treated with methylxanthines,(210)
D but whether this reflects a reduction in gas trapping or a prim ary effect on the respiratory skeletal muscles is not clear.
All studies that have shown efficacy of theophylline in ACOPD were performed with sustained-release preparations.
There is evidence for a modest bronchodilatTor effect compared with placebo in stable COPD.(213) Addition of
A theophylline to salmeterol produces a greatMer improvement in FEV1 and breathlessness than salmeterol alone.(214,215)
Earlier studies reported contradictory eTv idence regarding the effect of low-dose theophylline on exacerbation
H rates.(216,217) A study that investigateGd the effectiveness of adding low-dose theophylline to ICS in COPD patients at increased risk of exacerbation shoRwIed no difference compared with placebo in the number of COPD exacerbations
Y over a one-year period.(218) AP large placebo-controlled trial showed no effect of oral theophylline alone or in combination with prednisolo
O ne 5 mg daily on exacerbations of severe COPD.(219)
Adverse effects
Toxicity is dose-related, which is a particular problem with xanthine derivatives because their therapeutic ratio is small and most of the benefit occurs only when near-toxic doses are given.(211,213) Methylxanthines are non-specific inhibitors of all phosphodiesterase enzyme subsets, which explains their wide range of toxic effects. Problems include atrial and ventricular arrhythmias (which can prove fatal) and grand mal convulsions (which can occur irrespective of prior epileptic history). Other side effects include headaches, insomnia, nausea, and heartburn, and these may occur within the therapeutic range of serum levels of theophylline. These medications have significant interactions with commonly used medications such as erythromycin (but not azithromycin), certain quinolone antibiotics (ciprofloxacin, but not ofloxacin), allopurinol, cimetidine (but not ranitidine), serotonin uptake inhibitors (fluvoxamine) and the 5- lipoxygenase inhibitor zileuton.
Combination bronchodilator therapy
Combining bronchodilators with different mechanisms and durations of action may increase the degree of
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 32 bronchodilation with a lower risk of side-effects compared to increasing the dose of a single bronchodilator.(220,221)
Combinations of SABAs and SAMAs are superior compared to either medication alone in improving FEV1 and symptoms.(222) Treatment with formoterol and tiotropium in separate inhalers has a bigger impact on FEV1 than either component alone.(223) There are numerous combinations of a LABA and LAMA in a single inhaler available (see Figure).
These combinations improve lung function compared to placebo;(220) this improvement is consistently greater than long acting bronchodilator monotherapy effects although the magnitude of improvement is less than the fully additive effect predicted by the individual component responses.(224) Single inhalers improve adherence to treatment.(225) In studies where patient reported outcomes (PROs) are the primary endpoint or in pooled analyses, combination bronchodilators have a greater impact on PROs compared to monotherapies.(226-229) In one clinical trial, combination
LABA+LAMA treatment had the greatest improvement in quality of life compared to placebo or its individual bronchodilator components in patients with a greater baseline symptom burden.(230) A clinical trial showed that
LABA+LAMA improved lung function and symptoms versus long-acting bronchodilator monotherapy in symptomatic patients with low exacerbation risk and not receiving inhaled corticosteroids.(99) The LABA+LAMA combination demonstrated favorable improvements compared with the monotherapies for the majority of outcomes irrespective of baseline HRQoL.(231) These clinical trials deal with group mean data, but symptom responses to LABA+LAMA combinations are best evaluated on an individual patient basis. A lower dose, twice daily regimen for a LABA+LAMA
T has also been shown to improve symptoms and health status in COPD patients(232) (see Figure). These findings have
U been shown in people across different ethnic groups (Asian as well as European).(2B33)
Most studies with LABA+LAMA combinations have been performed in patients with a low rate of exacerbations. One
D study in patients with a history of exacerbations indicated that a combi nation of long-acting bronchodilators is more
T effective than long-acting bronchodilator monotherapy for preventOing exacerbations.(234) Another large study found
N that combining a LABA with a LAMA did not reduce exacerbatio n rate as much as expected compared with a LAMA
O alone.(235) Another study in patients with a history of exacerbaDtions showed that a combination LABA+LAMA decreased exacerbations to a greater extent than an LABA+ICS com b-ination.(236) However, another study in a population with
A high exacerbation risk (≥ 2 exacerbations and/or 1 hospitalization in the previous year) reported that LABA+ICS
R decreased exacerbations to a greater extent Ethan a LABA+LAMA combination at higher blood eosinophil
T concentrations.(64) A large observational pharmaco-epidemiological study found similar effectiveness of LABA+LAMA
M and LABA+ICS but a significantly higher risk of pneumonia in those treated with LABA+ICS.(237)
Anti-inflammatory agents G
To date, exacerbations (e.g., exYacerbation rate, patients with at least one exacerbation, time-to-first exacerbation)
P represent the main clinicallyO relevant end-point used for efficacy assessment of drugs with anti-inflammatory effects
(see Figure).
Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)
General considerations
In vitro evidence suggests that COPD-associated inflammation has limited responsiveness to corticosteroids.
Moreover, some drugs including beta -agonists, theophylline or macrolides may partially facilitate corticosteroid sensitivity in COPD.(238,239) The clinical relevance of this effect has not yet been fully established.
In vivo data suggest that the dose-response relationships and long-term (> 3 years) safety of ICS in people with COPD are unclear and require further investigation.(236) Because the effects of ICS in COPD can be modulated by the concomitant use of long-acting bronchodilators, these two therapeutic options are discussed separately.
Both current and ex-smokers with COPD benefit from ICS use in terms of lung function and exacerbation rates, although the magnitude of the effect is lower in heavy or current smokers compared to light or ex-smokers. (64,240)
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 33
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 34
Efficacy of ICS (alone)
Most studies have found that regular treatment with ICS alone does not modify the long-term decline of FEV1 nor mortality in people with COPD.(241) Studies and meta-analyses assessing the effect of regular treatment with ICS alone on mortality in people with COPD have not provided conclusive evidence of benefit.(241) In the TORCH trial, a trend toward higher mortality was observed for patients treated with fluticasone propionate alone compared to those receiving placebo or salmeterol plus fluticasone propionate combination.(143) However, an increase in mortality was not observed in COPD patients treated with fluticasone furoate in the Survival in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
Disease with Heightened Cardiovascular Risk (SUMMIT) trial.(242) In moderate COPD, fluticasone furoate alone or in combination with vilanterol was associated with slower decline in FEV1 compared with placebo or vilanterol alone by on average 9 mL/year.(243) A number of studies have investigated whether there is a relationship between ICS treatment and risk of lung cancer with conflicting results.(244)
ICS in combination with long-acting bronchodilator therapy
In patients with moderate to very severe COPD and exacerbations, an ICS combined with a LABA is more effective than either component alone in improving lung function, health status and reducing exacerbations.(245,246) Clinical trials powered on all-cause mortality as the primary outcome failed to demonstrate a staEtistically significant effect of
T combination therapy on survival.(143,242) U
Most studies that found a beneficial effect of a LABA+ICS fixed dose comTbination (FDC) over a LABA alone on
S exacerbation rate, recruited patients with a history of at least one exaceDrbIation in the previous year.(245) A pragmatic
RCT conducted in a primary healthcare setting in the United KingdomT compared a LABA+ICS combination with usual
O care. Findings showed an 8.4% reduction in moderate-to-severeN exacerbations (primary outcome) and a significant improvement in CAT™ score, with no difference in the rate ofO healthcare contacts or pneumonias. However, basing
D recommendations on these results is difficult because of the heterogeneity of treatments reported in the usual care
- group, the higher rate of treatment changes in the groLup receiving the LABA+ICS combination of interest, and the
A medical practice patterns unique to the UK region w
R hIere the study was conducted.(247)
Blood eosinophil count A
A number of studies have shown that bloTo d eosinophil counts predict the magnitude of the effect of ICS (added on
H top of regular maintenance bronchodilator treatment) in preventing future exacerbations.(59-64) There is a continuous
G relationship between blood eosinoRpIhil counts and ICS effects; no and/or small effects are observed at lower eosinophil
Y counts, with incrementally increasing effects observed at higher eosinophil counts.(69) Data modeling indicates that ICS
P containing regimens have litOtle or no effect at a blood eosinophil count < 100 cells/µL,(59) therefore this threshold can
C be used to identify patients with a low likelihood of treatment benefit with ICS. In addition, lower blood and sputum eosinophils are associated with greater presence of proteobacteria,(248-250) notably haemophilus, and increased bacterial infections and pneumonia.(251) Lower blood eosinophil counts therefore may identify individuals with microbiome profiles associated with increased risk of clinical worsenings due to pathogenic bacterial species. The threshold of a blood eosinophil count ≥ 300 cells/µL identifies the top of the continuous relationship between eosinophils and ICS, and can be used to identify patients with the greatest likelihood of treatment benefit with ICS.
Sources of evidence include: 1) Post-hoc analyses comparing LABA+ICS versus LABA(59,60,62); 2) Pre-specified analyses comparing triple therapy versus LABA+LAMA or LAMA(61,63,64); and 3) other analyses comparing LABA+ICS versus
LABA+LAMA(252) or studying ICS withdrawal.(110,111,253)
The treatment effect of ICS containing regimens (LABA+LAMA+ICS and LABA+ICS vs LABA+LAMA) is higher in patients with high exacerbation risk (≥ 2 exacerbations and / or 1 hospitalization in the previous year).(61,64,236) Thus, the use of blood eosinophil counts to predict ICS effects should always be combined with clinical assessment of exacerbation risk
(as indicated by the previous history of exacerbations). Other factors (smoking status, ethnicity, geographical location)
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 35 could influence the relationship between ICS effect and blood eosinophil count but remains to be further explored.
Factors to consider when initiating ICS treatment in combination with one or two long-acting bronchodilators are shown in the Figure.(254)
Adverse effects
There is high quality evidence from RCTs that ICS use modifies the airway microbiome(255) and is associated with higher prevalence of oral candidiasis, hoarse voice, skin bruising and pneumonia.(241) This excess risk has been confirmed in
ICS studies using fluticasone furoate, even at low doses.(256) Patients at higher risk of pneumonia include those who currently smoke, are aged ≥ 55 years, have a history of prior exacerbations or pneumonia, a body mass index (BMI) <
25 kg/m2, a poor MRC dyspnea grade and/or severe airflow obstruction.(257,258) Independent of ICS use, there is evidence that a blood eosinophil count < 2% increases the risk of developing pneumonia.(259) In studies of patients with moderate COPD, ICS by itself or in combination with a LABA did not increase the risk of pneumonia.(242,258)
Results from RCTs have yielded varied results regarding the risk of decreased bone density and fractures with ICS treatment, which may be due to differences in study designs and/or differences between ICS compounds.(160,256,260-262)
Results of observational studies suggest that ICS treatment could also be associated with increased risk of diabetes/poor control of diabetes,(263) cataracts,(264) and mycobacterial infection.(265) An increased risk of tuberculosis has been found in both observational studies and a meta-analysis of RCTs.(266-268) In the absence of RCT data on these issues, it is not possible to draw firm conclusions.(269) ICS and lung cancer incidence is discussed in Chapter 5 of the
GOLD 2024 Report.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 36
Withdrawal of ICS
Results from withdrawal studies provide equivocal results regarding consequences of withdrawal on lung function, symptoms and exacerbations.(270-274) Some studies have shown an increase in exacerbations and/or symptoms following ICS withdrawal, while others have not. There has been evidence for a modest decrease in FEV1
(approximately 40 mL) with ICS withdrawal,(274) which could be associated with increased baseline circulating eosinophil numbers.(253) A study examining ICS withdrawal on a background of dual bronchodilator therapy demonstrated that both FEV1 loss and an increase in exacerbation frequency associated with ICS withdrawal was greatest among patients with a blood eosinophil count ≥ 300 cells/µL at baseline.(110) Differences between studies may relate to differences in methodology, including the use of background long-acting bronchodilator medication(s) which may minimize any effect of ICS withdrawal.
Triple therapy (LABA+LAMA+ICS)
The step up in inhaled treatment to LABA plus LAMA plus ICS (triple therapy) can occur by various approaches(275) and has been shown to improve lung function, patient reported outcomes and reduce exacerbations when compared to
LAMA alone, LABA+LAMA and LABA+ICS.(61,63,64,276-283) A post-hoc analysis of one of theT RCTs that evaluated the effects
U of LABA+LAMA+ICS showed that triple therapy improved clinical outcomes versus dual therapy regardless of smoking
B status.(284) R I
A post-hoc pooled analysis of three triple therapy clinical trials in COPD pDatients with severe airflow obstruction and a
T history of exacerbations showed a non-significant trend for lower mortality (assessed as a safety outcome) with triple
O inhaled therapy compared to non-ICS based treatments.(285) Two Nlarge one-year randomized controlled trials (named
IMPACT and ETHOS) were reviewed earlier in this section (see ‘Therapeutic interventions that reduce COPD mortality’)
D and provide new evidence on mortality reduction with fi xed-dose inhaled triple combinations compared to dual
 L bronchodilation.(103,286) A
Oral glucocorticoids
Oral glucocorticoids have numerous side effects, including steroid myopathy(287) which can contribute to muscle
T weakness, decreased functionality, andH respiratory failure in people with very severe COPD. Systemic glucocorticoids
G for treating acute exacerbations in hospitalized patients, or during emergency department visits, have been shown to
R reduce the rate of treatment
Y failure, the rate of relapse and to improve lung function and breathlessness.(288)
Conversely, prospective studies on the long-term effects of oral glucocorticoids in stable COPD are limited.(289,290)
Therefore, while oral glucCocorticoids play a role in the acute management of exacerbations, they have no role in the chronic daily treatment in COPD because of a lack of benefit balanced against a high rate of systemic complications.
Phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitor
The principal action of PDE4 inhibitors is to reduce inflammation by inhibiting the breakdown of intracellular cyclic
AMP.(291) Roflumilast is a once daily oral medication with no direct bronchodilator activity. Roflumilast reduces moderate and severe exacerbations treated with systemic corticosteroids in patients with chronic bronchitis, severe to very severe COPD, and a history of exacerbations.(292) The effects on lung function are also seen when roflumilast is added to long-acting bronchodilators,(293) and in patients who are not controlled on fixed-dose LABA+ICS combinations.(105) The beneficial effects of roflumilast have been reported to be greater in patients with a prior history of hospitalization for an acute exacerbation.(107,109) There has been no study directly comparing roflumilast with an inhaled corticosteroid.
Adverse effects
Roflumilast has more adverse effects than inhaled medications for COPD.(294) The most frequent are diarrhea, nausea,
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 37 reduced appetite, weight loss, abdominal pain, sleep disturbance, and headache. Adverse effects have led to increased withdrawal rates from clinical trials. Adverse effects seem to occur early during treatment, are reversible, and diminish over time with continued treatment. In controlled studies an average unexplained weight loss of 2 kg has been seen and weight monitoring during treatment is advised, in addition to avoiding roflumilast treatment in underweight patients. Roflumilast should also be used with caution in patients with depression.
Antibiotics
In older studies prophylactic, continuous use of antibiotics had no effect on the frequency of exacerbations in
COPD(295,296) and a study that examined the efficacy of chemoprophylaxis undertaken in winter months over a period of 5 years concluded that there was no benefit.(297) Later studies have shown that regular use of some antibiotics may reduce exacerbation rate.(298,299)
Azithromycin (250 mg/day or 500 mg three times per week) or erythromycin (250 mg two times per day) for one year in patients prone to exacerbations reduced the risk of exacerbations compared to usual care.(108,300,301) Azithromycin use was associated with an increased incidence of bacterial resistance, prolongation of QTc interval, and impaired
E hearing tests.(108) A post-hoc analysis suggests lesser benefit in active smokers.(109) There are no data showing the
T efficacy or safety of chronic azithromycin treatment to prevent COPD exacerbationsU beyond one-year of treatment.
Pulse therapy with moxifloxacin (400 mg/day for 5 days every 8 weeks) in patieTnts with chronic bronchitis and frequent
S exacerbations had no beneficial effect on the exacerbation rate overaDll.(I302) Long-term doxycycline did not reduce exacerbations, although there may be responder subgroups.(303) T
Mucolytic (mucokinetics, mucoregulators) and aOnt ioxidant agents (N-acetylcysteine,
D carbocysteine, erdosteine)
In COPD patients not receiving ICS, regular treatmenIt with mucolytics such as carbocysteine and N-acetylcysteine
(NAC) may reduce exacerbations and modestly Eimprove health status.(304-307) In contrast, it has been shown that
T erdosteine may have a significant effect on (mAild) exacerbations irrespective of concurrent treatment with ICS. Due to
M the heterogeneity of studied populations, treatment dosing and concomitant treatments, currently available data do
T not allow precise identification of the pHotential target population for antioxidant agents in COPD.(308)
Other drugs with potential to reduce exacerbations
Four large phase 3 studies have investigated the efficacy of the anti-IL-5 monoclonal antibody mepolizumab(309) and
C the anti-IL-5 receptor- antibody benralizumab(310) in patients with severe COPD, recurrent exacerbations and peripheral blood evidence of eosinophilic inflammation despite high intensity inhaled therapy. The studies showed a
15% to 20% reduction in the rate of severe exacerbations but the effect was not always statistically significant, and it was variable between studies and doses. There was no effect on FEV1 or quality of life scores and no consistent relationship between the response to treatment and the peripheral blood eosinophil count. A post-hoc analysis of the mepolizumab trial showed greater benefit and more clear evidence of a blood eosinophil related treatment effect against oral corticosteroid treated exacerbations raising the possibility that this treatment might find a role in a highly selected subgroup of patients with eosinophilic COPD and frequent requirement for oral corticosteroids. Further studies are required to investigate this possibility.
A RCT showed that treatment with the humanized anti-IL-4 receptor alpha monoclonal antibody dupilumab reduced exacerbations and improved FEV1 as well as symptoms and health-related quality of life in patients with COPD, chronic bronchitis, a baseline blood eosinophil count ≥ 300 cells/µL, and a relevant exacerbation history. These findings are potentially important and clinical practice changing but require confirmation in further studies.(311)
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 38
Nedocromil and leukotriene modifiers have not been tested adequately in COPD patients and the available evidence does not support their use. (312,313)
There was no evidence of benefit, and some evidence of harm, including malignancy and pneumonia, following treatment with an anti-TNF-alpha antibody (infliximab) in moderate to severe COPD.(314)
A recent Cochrane meta-analysis did not show sufficient evidence to support the use of immunostimulants.(315)
An RCT of the selective β1 receptor blocker metoprolol in patients with moderate or severe COPD, who did not have an established indication for beta-blocker use, showed it did not delay the time until the first COPD exacerbation compared to the placebo group and hospitalization for exacerbation was more common among the patients treated with metoprolol.(316) There is no evidence that beta-blockers should be used in people with COPD who do not have a cardiovascular indication for their use.
Simvastatin did not prevent exacerbations in people with COPD who had no metabolic or cardiovascular indication for statin treatment.(317) An association between statin use and improved outcomes (including decreased exacerbations
T and mortality) has been reported in observational studies of people with COPD who received them for cardiovascular
U and metabolic indications.(318) B
There is no evidence that supplementation with vitamin D has a positive impact on exacerbations in unselected
D patients.(319) In a meta-analysis vitamin D supplementation reduced exa cerbation rates in patients with low baseline
T vitamin D levels,(320) but a more recent study has shown no effect.(32O1)
Other pharmacological treatments D
 Other pharmacological treatments for COPD are summaLrized in the Figure below.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 39
Overview of the evidence: Non-pharmacological therapy
Pulmonary rehabilitation, self-management and integrative care in COPD
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 40
MANAGEMENT OF EXACERBATIONS
KEY POINTS:
• An exacerbation of COPD is defined as an event characterized by dyspnea and/or cough and sputum that worsen over < 14 days. Exacerbations of COPD are often associated with increased local and systemic inflammation caused by airway infection, pollution, or other insults to the lungs.
• As the symptoms are not specific to COPD relevant differential diagnoses should be considered, particularly pneumonia, congestive heart failure and pulmonary embolism.
• The goals for treatment of COPD exacerbations are to minimize the negative impact of the current exacerbation and to prevent subsequent events.
• Short-acting inhaled beta -agonists, with or without short-actinUg anticholinergics, are
B recommended as the initial bronchodilators to treat an exacerbation.
• Maintenance therapy with long-acting bronchodilators sShould be initiated as soon as
I possible. In patients with frequent exacerbations andD elevated blood eosinophil levels
T addition of inhaled corticosteroids to the double bronchodilator regimen should be
O considered. N
• In patients with severe exacerbations, systeDmic corticosteroids can improve lung function
(FEV1), oxygenation and shorten reco -very time including hospitalization duration.
Duration of therapy should not normAally be more than 5 days.
• Antibiotics, when indicated, caTn shorten recovery time, reduce the risk of early relapse,
A treatment failure, and hospitalization duration. Duration of therapy should be 5 days.
• Methylxanthines are nHot recommended due to increased side effect profiles.
• Non-invasive meRchanical ventilation should be the first mode of ventilation used in COPD
Y patients withP acute respiratory failure who have no absolute contraindication because it improves gOas exchange, reduces work of breathing and the need for intubation, decreases
C hospitalization duration and improves survival.
• Exacerbation recovery time varies, taking up to 4-6 weeks to recover, with some patients failing to return to the pre-exacerbation functional state. Following an exacerbation, appropriate measures for exacerbation prevention should be initiated (see previous section).
Considerations
Exacerbations of COPD are important events in the management of COPD because they negatively impact health status, rates of hospitalization and readmission, and disease progression.(322,323) COPD exacerbations are usually associated with increased airway inflammation, increased mucus production and marked gas trapping. These changes contribute to increased dyspnea that is the key symptom of an exacerbation. Other symptoms include increased sputum purulence and volume, together with increased cough and wheeze.(324,325) Patients with COPD are at increased risk of other acute events, particularly decompensated heart failure,(326,327) pneumonia,(328,329) pulmonary embolism(330,331) that may also mimic or aggravate an ECOPD. Thus, while worsening of dyspnea, particularly if
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 41 associated with cough and, purulent sputum, and no other symptoms or signs in a patient with COPD may be diagnosed as an ECOPD, other patients may have worsening of respiratory symptoms, particularly dyspnea without the classic characteristics of ECOPD, that should prompt careful consideration and/or search of those potential confounders, or contributors. In some patients one or more of these diagnoses may contribute to the clinical presentations and should be addressed appropriately (see Figure).
Currently, exacerbations are classified after the event has occurred as:
► Mild (treated with short acting bronchodilators only, SABDs)
► Moderate (treated with SABDs and oral corticosteroids ± antibiotics) or
► Severe (patient requires hospitalization or visits the emergency room). Severe exacerbations may also be associated with acute respiratory failure.
The current grading of the severity of an ECOPD, based on post facto use of healthcare resources, is a major limitation of the current definition. Because of global variability in the available resources to treat patients and local customs affecting the criteria for hospital visits and admissions, there is substantial variability in reported ECOPD outcomes.(332)
The Figure shows a proposed clinical approach based on the current best available evidence.(333)
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 42
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 43
TREATMENT OPTIONS
Treatment setting
The goals of treatment for COPD exacerbations are to minimize the negative impact of the current exacerbation and prevent the development of subsequent events.(334) Depending on the severity of an exacerbation and/or the severity of the underlying disease, an exacerbation can be managed in either the outpatient or inpatient setting. More than
80% of exacerbations are managed on an outpatient basis with pharmacological therapies including bronchodilators, corticosteroids, and antibiotics.(162,335,336)
The indications for assessing the need for hospitalization during a COPD exacerbation are shown in the Figure. When
M patients with a COPD exacerbation comeT t o the emergency department, if hypoxemic they should be provided with
H supplemental oxygen and undergo assessment to determine whether the exacerbation is life-threatening and if
G increased work of breathing or iRmIpaired gas exchange requires consideration for non-invasive ventilation. If so,
Y healthcare providers should consider admission to an area where proper monitoring and care can be provided. In less
P severe cases, the patient mOay be managed in the emergency department or hospital ward unit. In addition to
C pharmacological therapy, hospital management of exacerbations includes respiratory support (oxygen therapy, ventilation). The management of severe, but not life threatening, exacerbations is outlined in the Figure.
The clinical presentation of COPD exacerbation is heterogeneous, thus we recommend that in hospitalized patients the severity of the exacerbation should be based on the patient’s clinical signs and recommend the following classification:(337)
No respiratory failure: Respiratory rate: ≤ 24 breaths per minute; heart rate < 95 beats per minute, no use of accessory respiratory muscles; no changes in mental status; hypoxemia improved with supplemental oxygen given via
Venturi mask 24-35% inspired oxygen (FiO ); no increase in PaCO .
Acute respiratory failure – non-life-threatening: Respiratory rate: > 24 breaths per minute; using accessory respiratory muscles; no change in mental status; hypoxemia improved with supplemental oxygen via Venturi mask
> 35% FiO ; hypercarbia i.e., PaCO increased compared with baseline or elevated 50-60 mmHg.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 44
Acute respiratory failure – life-threatening: Respiratory rate: > 24 breaths per minute; using accessory respiratory muscles; acute changes in mental status; hypoxemia not improved with supplemental oxygen via Venturi mask or requiring FiO > 40%; hypercarbia i.e., PaCO increased compared with baseline or elevated > 60 mmHg or the
2 2 presence of acidosis (pH ≤ 7.25).
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 45
Respiratory Support
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 46
COPD AND COMORBIDITIES
KEY POINTS:
• COPD often coexists with other diseases (comorbidities) that may have a significant impact on disease course.
• In general, the presence of comorbidities should not alter COPD treatment and comorbidities should be treated per usual standards regardless of the presence of COPD.
• Cardiovascular diseases are common and important comorbidities in COPD.
• Lung cancer is frequently seen in people with COPD and is a major cause of death.
o Annual low-dose CT scan (LDCT) is recommended for lung cancer screening in people with COPD due to smoking according to recommendations for the general
E population T
B o Annual LDCT is not recommended for lung cancer screeIning in people with COPD
R not due to smoking due to insufficient data to estabTlish benefit over harm
• Osteoporosis and depression/anxiety are frequent, imp ortant comorbidities in COPD, are
T often under-diagnosed, and are associated with poOor health status and prognosis.
• Gastroesophageal reflux (GERD) is associatedO with an increased risk of exacerbations and
D poorer health status.
• When COPD is part of a multimorbidity care plan, attention should be directed to ensure
R simplicity of treatment and to mEinimize polypharmacy.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 47
COVID-19 AND COPD
KEY POINTS:
• People with COPD presenting with new or worsening respiratory symptoms, fever, and/or any other symptoms that could be COVID-19 related, even if these are mild, should be tested for possible infection with SARS-CoV-2.
• Patients should keep taking their oral and inhaled respiratory medications for COPD as directed.
• During periods of high prevalence of COVID-19 in the community, spirometry should be restricted to patients requiring urgent or essential tests for the diagnosis of COPD, and/or to assess lung function status for interventional procedures or surgery.
• Physical distancing and shielding, or sheltering-in-place, should not lead to social isolation
E and inactivity. Patients should stay in contact with their frienTds and families by
U telecommunication and continue to keep active. They shouldB also ensure they have enough medication. R I
• Patients should be encouraged to use reputable resoIurces for medical information
D regarding COVID-19 and its management.
• Guidance for remote (phone/virtual/online) COPD patient follow-up and a printable
O checklist are provided.
REFERENCES
The full list of references for this pocket guide can be found online at: www.goldcopd.org/pocketguidereferences.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 48
©2023, 2024 Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease, Inc.
Visit the GOLD website at www.goldcopd.org