Global Initiative for
POCKET
Chronic Obstructive
Lung Disease
POCKET GUIDE TO COPD
Global Strategy for the Diagnosis, Management, and
DIAGNOSIS, MANAGEMENT, AND PREVENTION
Prevention of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
A Guide for Health Care Professionals
GLOBAL INITIATIVE FOR
CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE LUNG
DISEASE
POCKET GUIDE TO COPD
DIAGNOSIS, MANAGEMENT, AND PREVENUTION
A Guide for Health Care ProfessioInals
2025 EDITION Y
© 2024, 2025 Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease, Inc.
Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer
The information provided by Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (“GOLD”) for inclusion in its materials, website, and applications (including but not limited to web based or digital applications) is provided for the convenience of users to help them understand the conclusions of GOLD as of the date of the specific information’s approval by GOLD. That information’s relevance to, and/or application to, a particular patient or case must be carefully assessed, evaluated, and determined by a qualified health care professional treating that patient or case. Users need to be aware of the fact that only the English language version of GOLD’s information has been reviewed and approved by GOLD, and that users must ensure that they have the most current version of GOLD’s information since GOLD’s information may have been updated or changed after its original release. Especially in light of the above, GOLD expressly disclaims any liability arising out of any use or misuse of the information it provides.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer i
GOLD BOARD OF DIRECTORS GOLD SCIENCE COMMITTEE*
(2024) (2024)
Alvar Agusti, MD, Chair Claus Vogelmeier, MD, Chair Alberto Papi, MD
Respiratory Institute University of Marburg University of Ferrara
Hospital Clinic, IDIBAPS Marburg, Germany Ferrara, Italy
Univ. Barcelona and Ciberes
Barcelona, Spain Alvar Agusti, MD Ian Pavord, DM FMedSci
Respiratory Institute Respiratory Medicine Unit and Oxford
Bartolome R. Celli, MD Hospital Clinic, IDIBAPS Respiratory NIHR Biomedical Research
Harvard Medical School Univ. Barcelona and Ciberes Centre, Nuffield Department of Medicine
Boston, Massachusetts, USA Barcelona, Spain University of Oxford
Oxford, UK
Gerard Criner, MD Antonio Anzueto, MD
Temple University School of Medicine South Texas Veterans Health Care Nicolas Roche, MD
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA System, Pneumologie, Hôpital Cochin
University of Texas, Health AP-HP.Centre – Université Paris Cité
David Halpin, MD San Antonio, Texas, USA UMR 1016 E
University of Exeter Medical School Institut CocThin
College of Medicine and Health Jean Bourbeau, MD Paris, France
University of Exeter, Exeter McGill University Health Centre I
Devon, UK McGill University Don D. Sin, MD
Montreal, Canada SSt. Paul’s Hospital
Maria Montes de Oca, MD D IUniversity of British Columbia
Hospital Universitario de Caracas Gerard Criner, MD R Vancouver, Canada
Universidad Central de Venezuela Temple University School of MedOicine
Centro Médico de Caracas Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA Dave Singh, MD
Caracas, Venezuela P University of Manchester
David Halpin, MD O Manchester, UK
Obianuju B. Ozoh, MD University of Exeter MeCdical School
University of Lagos College of MedicineT and Health Robert Stockley, MD DSc – Retired, 2024
Lagos, Nigeria University of Exeter, Exeter University Hospital
Devon, UK Birmingham, UK
Sundeep Salvi, MD O
Pulmocare Research and Education MeiLan K. Han, MD MS Thierry Troosters
(PURE) Foundation Unive r - sity of Michigan Research Group for Rehabilitation in
Pune, India AAnn Arbor, MI, USA Internal Disorders
R I Laboratory of Respiratory Diseases and
Claus Vogelmeier, MD EFernando J. Martinez, MD MS Thoracic Surgery (BREATHE)
University of Marburg T University of Massachusetts Chan Leuven, Belgium
Marburg, Germany M Medical School
Worcester, MA, USA Jadwiga A. Wedzicha, MD
Jinping Zheng, MD H National Heart & Lung Institute
Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory G Maria Montes de Oca, MD Imperial College London
Health, First Affiliated Hospital o R f I Hospital Universitario de Caracas London, UK
Guangzhou Medical UniversityY, Universidad Central de Venezuela
Guangzhou, China P Centro Médico de Caracas Jinping Zheng, MD
Caracas, Venezuela Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory
Health,
Obianuju B. Ozoh, MD First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou
University of Lagos Medical University
Lagos, Nigeria Guangzhou, China
GOLD EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EDITORIAL ASSISTANCE ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Katie Langefeld, BS Ruth Hadfield, PhD Contributors: Pulmonary hypertension
Illinois, USA Macquarie University AIHI text written by Gabor Kovacs, Steven D.
Sydney, Australia Nathan, Oksana A. Shlobin, Marc
Humbert; Ed Portillo Figure 3.18 assistance.
ADMIN ASSISTANCE
Ashley Dear
GOLD is a member of The Global Alliance against Chronic Respiratory Diseases (GARD)
Disclosure forms for GOLD Committees are posted on the GOLD Website, www.goldcopd.org
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer ii
INTRODUCTION
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is now one of the top three causes of death worldwide and 90% of these deaths occur in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs).(1,2) More than 3 million people died of COPD in 2012 accounting for 6% of all deaths globally. COPD represents an important public health challenge that is both preventable and treatable. COPD is a major cause of chronic morbidity and mortality throughout the world; many people suffer from this disease for years and die prematurely from it or its complications. Globally, the COPD burden is projected to increase in coming decades because of continued exposure to COPD risk factors and aging of the population.(3)
This Pocket Guide has been developed from the Global Strategy for the Diagnosis, Management, and Prevention of COPD (GOLD 2025 Report), which aims to provide a non-biased review of the current evidence for the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of patients with COPD that can aid the clinician. Discussions of COPD and COPD management, evidence levels, and specific citations from the scientific literature are included in that source document.
TABLE OF FIGURES R I
Title Figure Number
FEV1 trajectories (TR) over the life course O Figure 1.1
Proposed taxonomy (etiotypes) for COPD Figure 1.2
Clinical indicators for considering a diagnosis of COPD Figure 2.1
Other causes of chronic cough T Figure 2.2
Differential diagnosis of COPD Figure 2.3
Considerations in performing spirometry O Figure 2.4
Spirometry - normal trace; Spirometry - obstructive disease Figure 2.5
 Pre- and post-bronchodilator spirometry L Figure 2.6
Role of spirometry in COPD R I Figure 2.7
GOLD grades and severity of airflow obstruction in COPD (based on post-bronchodilator FEV1) Figure 2.8
Modified MRC dyspnea scale Figure 2.9
CAT assessment T Figure 2.10
GOLD ABE assessment tool Figure 2.11
Use of CT in Stable COPD R I Figure 2.12
Goals for treatment ofP stable COPD Figure 3.1
Management of COPD Figure 3.2
Identify & reduce risk factor exposure Figure 3.3
Brief strategies to help the patient willing to quit Figure 3.4
Treating tobacco use and dependence: A clinical practice guideline - major findings & Figure 3.5 recommendations
Vaccination for stable COPD Figure 3.6
Initial pharmacological treatment Figure 3.7
Management cycle Figure 3.8
Follow-up pharmacological treatment Figure 3.9
Key points for inhalation of drugs Figure 3.10
Basic principles for appropriate inhalation device choice Figure 3.11
Non-pharmacological management of COPD Figure 3.12
Follow-up of non-pharmacological treatment Figure 3.13
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 1
Oxygen therapy and ventilatory support in stable COPD Figure 3.14
Prescription of supplemental oxygen to COPD patients Figure 3.15
Palliative care, end of life and hospice care in COPD Figure 3.16
Evidence supporting a reduction in mortality with pharmacotherapy and non-pharmacotherapy Figure 3.17 in COPD patients
Maintenance medications in COPD Figure 3.18
Bronchodilators in stable COPD Figure 3.19
Anti-inflammatory therapy in stable COPD Figure 3.20
Factors to consider when initiating ICS treatment Figure 3.21
Management of Patients on LABA+ICS Figure 3.22
Other pharmacological treatments Figure 3.23
Pulmonary rehabilitation, self-management and integrative care in COPD Figure 3.24
Overview of current and proposed surgical and bronchoscopic interventions for people with Figure 3.25
COPD E
Surgical and interventional therapies in advanced emphysema U Figure 3.26
Interventional therapy in stable COPD I Figure 3.27
Confounders or contributors to be considered in patients presenting with suspecteTd COPD Figure 4.1
S exacerbation D I
Exacerbations: diagnosis and assessment R Figure 4.2
Classification of the severity of COPD exacerbations Figure 4.3
Potential indications for hospitalization assessment P Figure 4.4
Management of severe but not life-threatening exacerbations C Figure 4.5
Key points for the management of exacerbations Figure 4.6
Indications for respiratory or medical intensive care unit aNdmission Figure 4.7
Indications for noninvasive mechanical ventilation (NIV) Figure 4.8
Indications for invasive mechanical ventilation - Figure 4.9
Discharge criteria and recommendations for foAllow-up Figure 4.10
Interventions that reduce the frequency of COPD exacerbations Figure 4.11
Treatable traits in PH-COPD and their mTanagement Figure 5.1
Common risk factors for developmeMnt of lung cancer Figure 5.2
Description of levels of evidence Figure A
COPD follow-up checklist Appendix
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 2
DEFINITION & OVERVIEW
KEY POINTS:
Definition
• Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a heterogeneous lung condition characterized by chronic respiratory symptoms (dyspnea, cough, sputum production and/or exacerbations) due to abnormalities of the airways (bronchitis, bronchiolitis) and/or alveoli (emphysema) that cause persistent, often progressive, airflow obstruction.
Causes and Risk Factors
• COPD results from gene(G)-environment(E) interactions occurring over the lifetime(T) of the individual
(GETomics) that can damage the lungs and/or alter their normal development/aging processes.
• The main environmental exposures leading to COPD are tobacco smoking and theT inhalation of toxic
U particles and gases from household and outdoor air pollution, but other enBvironmental and host
R factors (including abnormal lung development and accelerated lung aging) can also contribute.
• The most relevant (albeit rare) genetic risk factor for COPD identified to date are mutations in the
SERPINA1 gene that lead to α-1 antitrypsin deficiency. A number of other genetic variants have also
R been associated with reduced lung function and risk of COPD, buOt their individual effect size is small.
Diagnostic Criteria
• In the appropriate clinical context (see ‘Definition’ & ‘CauOses and Risk Factors’ above), the presence
C of non-fully reversible airflow obstruction (i.e., FEV1/ FVC < 0.7 post-bronchodilation) measured by
O spirometry confirms the diagnosis of COPD.
• Some individuals can have respiratory symptom s and/or structural lung lesions (e.g., emphysema)
O and/or physiological abnormalities (includiDng low FEV1, gas trapping, hyperinflation, reduced lung
- diffusing capacity and/or rapid FEV1 Lde cline) without airflow obstruction (FEV1/FVC ≥ 0.7 post A bronchodilation). These subjects are Ilabeled ‘Pre-COPD’. The term ‘PRISm’ (Preserved Ratio Impaired
Spirometry) has been proposed tEo identify those with normal ratio but abnormal spirometry. Subjects
T with Pre-COPD or PRISm are Aat risk of developing airflow obstruction over time, but not all of them
Clinical Presentation H
• Patients with COPD typically complain of dyspnea, activity limitation and/or cough with or without
R sputum produYction and may experience acute respiratory events characterized by increased
P respiratoryO symptoms called exacerbations that require specific preventive and therapeutic measures.
• Patients with COPD frequently harbor other comorbid diseases that influence their clinical condition and prognosis and require specific treatment as well. These comorbid conditions can mimic and/or aggravate an acute exacerbation.
New Opportunities
• COPD is a common, preventable, and treatable disease, but extensive under-diagnosis and misdiagnosis leads to patients receiving no treatment or incorrect treatment. Appropriate and earlier diagnosis of COPD can have a very significant public-health impact.
• The realization that environmental factors other than tobacco smoking can contribute to COPD, that it can start early in life and affect young individuals, and that there are precursor conditions (Pre COPD, PRISm), opens new windows of opportunity for its prevention, early diagnosis, and prompt and appropriate therapeutic intervention.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 3
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 4
DIAGNOSIS AND ASSESSMENT
KEY POINTS:
• A diagnosis of COPD should be considered in any patient who has dyspnea, chronic cough or sputum production, a history of recurrent lower respiratory tract infections and/or a history of exposure to risk factors for the disease, but spirometry showing the presence of a post- bronchodilator FEV1/FVC < 0.7 is mandatory to establish the diagnosis of COPD.
• The goals of the initial COPD assessment are to determine the severity of airflow obstruction, the impact of disease on the patient’s health status, and the risk of future events (such as
E exacerbations, hospital admissions, or death), to guide therapy.
• Additional clinical assessment, including the measurement of lung volumIes, diffusion capacity,
R exercise testing and/or lung imaging may be considered in COPD Tpatients with persistent
S symptoms after initial treatment. I
• Concomitant chronic diseases (multimorbidity) occur frequOently in COPD patients, including
Y cardiovascular disease, skeletal muscle dysfunction, metabolic syndrome, osteoporosis,
P depression, anxiety, and lung cancer. These comorbiditOies should be actively sought, and treated
C appropriately when present, because they influence health status, hospitalizations and mortality
T independently of the severity of airflow obstrucOtion due to COPD.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 5
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 6
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 7
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 8
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 9
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 10
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 11
PREVENTION & MANAGEMENT OF COPD
KEY POINTS:
• All individuals who smoke should be strongly encouraged and supported to quit. Nicotine replacement and pharmacotherapy reliably increase long-term smoking abstinence rates.
Legislative smoking bans and counseling, delivered by healthcare professionals, improve quit rates.
There is no evidence to support the effectiveness and safety of e-cigarettes as a smoking cessation aid at present.
• The main treatment goals are to reduce symptoms and future risk of exacerbations. The management strategy of stable COPD should be predominantly based on the assessment of symptoms and the history of exacerbations.
• Pharmacotherapy can reduce COPD symptoms, reduce the frequenBcy and severity of exacerbations, and improve health status and exercise tolerance. Data sugRgIest beneficial effects on
T rates of lung function decline and mortality.
• Each pharmacological treatment regimen should be individualiRze d and guided by the severity of symptoms, risk of exacerbations, side-effects, comorbiditiesO, drug availability and cost, and the patient’s response, preference, and ability to use various dYrug delivery devices.
• Inhaler technique needs to be assessed regularly. C
• COVID-19 vaccines are highly effective against SARS-CoV-2 infection and people with COPD should
N have the COVID-19 vaccination in line with Ona tional recommendations.
• Influenza vaccination and pneumococc-al vaccination decrease the incidence of lower respiratory
L tract infections. A
• The CDC recommends: the Tdap vaccination (dTaP/dTPa; pertussis, tetanus and diptheria) for COPD
T patients who were not vaAccinated in adolescence; routine use of shingles vaccine in all COPD
M patients; the new respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine for individuals over 60 years and/or with
T chronic heart or lunHg disease.
• Pulmonary rehRabilitation with its core components, including exercise training combined with
Y disease-spPecific education, improves exercise capacity, symptoms, and quality of life across all grades oOf COPD severity.
• In patients with severe resting chronic hypoxemia (PaO ≤ 55 mmHg or < 60 mmHg if there is cor pulmonale or secondary polycythemia), long-term oxygen therapy improves survival.
• In patients with stable COPD and resting or exercise-induced moderate desaturation, long-term oxygen treatment should not be prescribed routinely. However, individual patient factors must be considered when evaluating the patient’s need for supplemental oxygen.
• In patients with severe chronic hypercapnia and a history of hospitalization for acute respiratory failure, long-term non-invasive ventilation may decrease mortality and prevent re-hospitalization.
• In select patients with advanced emphysema refractory to optimized medical care, surgical or bronchoscopic interventional treatments may be beneficial.
• Palliative approaches are effective in controlling symptoms in advanced COPD.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 12
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 13
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 14
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 15
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 16
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 17
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 18
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 19
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 20
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 21
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 22
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 23
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 24
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 25
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 26
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 27
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 28
MANAGEMENT OF EXACERBATIONS
KEY POINTS:
• An exacerbation of COPD is defined as an event characterized by dyspnea and/or cough and sputum that worsen over < 14 days. Exacerbations of COPD are often associated with increased local and systemic inflammation caused by airway infection, pollution, or other insults to the lungs.
• As the symptoms are not specific to COPD relevant differential diagnoses should be considered, particularly pneumonia, congestive heart failure and pulmonary embolism.
• The goals for treatment of COPD exacerbations are to minimize the negativeT impact of the
U current exacerbation and to prevent subsequent events.
• Short-acting inhaled beta -agonists, with or without short-actingT anticholinergics, are
S recommended as the initial bronchodilators to treat an exacerbation.
• Maintenance therapy with long-acting bronchodilators Oshould be initiated as soon as possible. In patients with frequent exacerbations andY elevated blood eosinophil levels addition of inhaled corticosteroids to the double Pbronchodilator regimen should be
O considered. C
• In patients with severe exacerbations, systemic corticosteroids can improve lung function
(FEV1), oxygenation and shorten reco very time including hospitalization duration.
Duration of therapy should not normDally be more than 5 days.
• Antibiotics, when indicated, can shorten recovery time, reduce the risk of early relapse,
A treatment failure, and hospRitaIlization duration. Duration of therapy should be 5 days.
• Methylxanthines are nAot recommended due to increased side effect profiles.
• Non-invasive mecThanical ventilation should be the first mode of ventilation used in COPD
H patients withG acute respiratory failure who have no absolute contraindication because it improves RgaIs exchange, reduces work of breathing and the need for intubation, decreases
Y hospitalization duration and improves survival.
• Ex C acerbation recovery time varies, taking up to 4-6 weeks to recover, with some patients failing to return to the pre-exacerbation functional state. Following an exacerbation, appropriate measures for exacerbation prevention should be initiated (see previous section).
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 29
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 30
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 31
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 32
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 33
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 34
COPD AND COMORBIDITIES
KEY POINTS:
• COPD often coexists with other diseases (comorbidities) that may have a significant impact on disease course.
• In general, the presence of comorbidities should not alter COPD treatment and comorbidities should be treated per usual standards regardless of the presence of COPD.
• Cardiovascular diseases are common and important comorbidities in COPD.
• Lung cancer is frequently seen in people with COPD and is a major cause of Tdeath.
B o Annual low-dose CT scan (LDCT) is recommended for lung caIncer screening in
R people with COPD due to smoking according to recommendTations for the general
S population
R o Annual LDCT is not recommended for lung cancer screening in people with COPD
O not due to smoking due to insufficient data to es tablish benefit over harm
• Osteoporosis and depression/anxiety are frequent, important comorbidities in COPD, are
C often under-diagnosed, and are associated with poor health status and prognosis.
• Gastroesophageal reflux (GERD) is associated with an increased risk of exacerbations and
O poorer health status.
 • When COPD is part of a multimoLrbidity care plan, attention should be directed to ensure
A simplicity of treatment and RtoI minimize polypharmacy.
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 35
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 36
COPD FOLLOW-UP CHECKLIST
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 37
Instructions for using the COPD follow-up checklist
1. Introduction a. Identify dates, Dx and whether this follow-up is being done in-person, by phone or remotely.
2. Section 1 – Baseline symptoms a. Go over the patient symptoms and whether there have been changes in dyspnea, cough, sputum volume and color (from least to most purulent: mucus; mucopurulent; purulent).
b. Identify maintenance pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment and whether the patient is observing treatment as prescribed.
3. Section 2 – COVID-19 a. Assess whether the patient has any symptoms of COVID-19 and would need to be tested. Have at hand local numbers where the patient can be referred to for testing and treatment.
b. If the patient has already been tested identify when the results will be obtained, or whether the result was positive or negative. If positive, is there a follow-up test planned, and dates.
E c. Verify patient is practicing COVID-19 precautions (face masks, hand washingT, social distancing, or
U shielding if necessary).
4. Section 3 – Action Plan R I
T a. Describe if the patient already has a written action plan. See examSple of an action plan from the
Living well with COPD program.(4) Describe if the education for Dthis action plan has already been
R done. Describe if the written action plan includes a prescription to be self-administered at home or
O whether the patient need to call his contact person / phy sician to obtain the prescription. Describe
P when it was used the last time and if used appropriately.
5. Section 4 – Recent Admissions and ER visits C
T a. Write down recent admissions and ER visits, dates and where they took place.
6. Section 5 – COPD Self-Management behaviors N
O a. Go over each of the self-management behaviors described in the list. You should cover what is
D pertinent to the patient treatable tr-a its (dyspnea and/or exacerbation). Describe whether the
L patient has integrated these strAategies in their daily life (yes), not at all (e.g., it has not been
I discussed or not applicable),R and whether the patient is unsure “cannot tell”.
7. Section 6 – Main issues T
A a. Identify with the patiMent the main issues of the call. Up to a maximum of 3 items that can be covered for the duration ofT the call. Avoid covering too many issues in one visit.
8. Section 7 – Summary,G Intervention and Plan
I a. Finalize by Rdescribing the interventions done during the remote visit, the ones to be put in place, and
Y agreed Pby the patient, the plan, including whether the patient needs to be referred to other services,
O healthcare professionals, etc. and when the next follow-up will take place (describe whether it will
C be in-person or remote).
REFERENCES
1. Halpin DMG, Celli BR, Criner GJ, et al. The GOLD Summit on chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in low- and middle- income countries. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2019; 23(11): 1131-41 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31718748.
2. Meghji J, Mortimer K, Agusti A, et al. Improving lung health in low-income and middle-income countries: from challenges to solutions. Lancet 2021; 397(10277): 928-40 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33631128.
3. Mathers CD, Loncar D. Projections of global mortality and burden of disease from 2002 to 2030. PLoS Med 2006; 3(11): e442 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17132052.
4. Bourbeau J, Nault D, Sedeno M. Action Plan from the Living Well with COPD series 2005. Available at https://www.livingwellwithcopd.com/en/copd-treatment.html [accessed Oct 2024].
Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 38
©2024, 2025 Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease, Inc.
Visit the GOLD website at www.goldcopd.org