Spotlight
Minimally invasive thoracic surgery in Sierra Leone and Liberia
Sierra Leone and Liberia are two west African countries tuberculosis could be eligible for surgery. In a retrospective We declare no competing which share a common history of brutal civil war in the review, Fadil and colleagues suggested that VATS lobectomy interests.
1990s, and the Ebola epidemic during 2014–16. Sierra or pneumonectomy are feasible procedures and can University Medical Center
Groningen, Groningen,
Leone lost 7% of health-care workers due to Ebola, and be performed safely with minimal morbidity (21% had
Netherlands (TMG); Connaught
Liberia lost 8%. This loss substantially affected the already complications; most commonly prolonged air leakage Hospital, Freetown, Sierra fragile health-care systems, highlighting that the impact of after day 5) and mortality for people with infectious Leone (MK, MIK); University
Ebola extended beyond direct morbidity and mortality. lung disease in Morocco, although operations can be Hospital Ibn Rochd, Casablanca,
Morocco (SB); Bo Government
To achieve universal health coverage, human resources for technically challenging due to pleural symphysis, bronchial
Hospital, Bo, Sierra Leone (RD); health should match the population’s needs. Currently both hypervascularisation, calcified lymphadenopathy, adherence Partners in Health, Freetown, countries have one medical school each, with an output of to hilar structures, and the thickness of infected tissues. Sierra Leone (ML);
John F Kennedy Medical Center, approximately 25 medical graduate doctors in Liberia and Authors Souheil Boubia and Diego Gonzalez-Rivas are
Monrovia, Liberia (PSC, TM,
50 in Sierra Leone annually. The surgical workforce density professors of thoracic surgery with extensive experience KG); Tongji University Shanghai of 2∙7 surgical specialists per 100 000 inhabitants in Sierra in VATS surgery and in resource-poor settings (including Pulmonary Hospital, Shanghai,
China (DG-R)
Leone and 1∙6 per 100 000 in Liberia is a lot lower than the sub-Saharan Africa). As a result of contacts established by tgresnigt@hotmail.com minimum recommendation of 20∙0 per 100 000. Tom Gresnigt while working in Sierra Leone, in August, 2023,
For more on Ebola mortality
We discuss our experience trying to kickstart and offer we collaborated with the Ministry of Health and Sanitation see Correspondence improved services imperative to respiratory health, of Sierra Leone and the management of tertiary referral Lancet Glob Health 2015;
3: e439–40 particularly the need for thoracic surgery in Sierra Leone facilities at the Connaught Hospital and John F Kennedy
For more on the workforce in and Liberia. The fact is that the entire population of these Medical Center to kickstart minimally invasive surgery
Liberia see World J Surg 2022; countries have no access to thoracic surgery. Additionally, in these regions. Patients were chosen by local internal 46: 486–96 diagnostic adjuncts are scarce; for instance, Sierra Leone medicine specialists, surgeons, and radiologists. We used an For the prevalence of has only two CT scans available, neither of which are at the online communication platform to discuss potential cases aspergillosis in Sierra Leone see
PLoS Negl Trop Dis 2023;
Connaught Hospital in the capital of Freetown. In Liberia, and preoperative challenges before arriving in Sierra Leone
17: e0011284 there are four CT scans, with one located at John F Kennedy and Liberia with the visiting team. Eligible patients who
For more on the surgical
Medical Center in the capital of Monrovia. provided informed consent were selected for surgery on the management of tuberculosis
Oncological conditions drive the need for pulmonary basis of the clinical picture, sputum (ie, smears negative for see Microbiol Spectr resection in high-income countries; whereas in low-income acid-fast bacilli [AFB]), and surgical feasibility (chest x-ray in 2017; published online March 17.
https://doi.org/10.1128/ and middle-income countries (LMICs), infectious origins Sierra Leone or CT in Liberia).
microbiolspec.tnmi7-0043-2017 often stemming from post-tuberculosis sequelae (such All surgical equipment, staplers, double lumen tubes,
For more on VATS lobectomy as destroyed lung, aspergilloma, and bronchiectasis) or the camera, and screen were brought by the visiting team for infectious lung disease see pleural space complications (such as empyema thoracis from the Netherlands, Morocco, and Spain because these Scholars Journal of Applied Medical
Sciences 2019; 7: 535–38 and fibrothorax) drive the demand for this type of surgery. were not available in Sierra Leone or Liberia. We donated
Tuberculosis is highly endemic in Liberia with 314 cases per 100 000 people and Sierra Leone with 289 cases per
100 000 people, and both are in the top 30 on the WHO list of high tuberculosis burden countries. A cross-sectional study recently estimated that 6000 people in Sierra
Leone have chronic pulmonary aspergillosis and surgical intervention is recommended for symptomatic patients to improve survival rates.
A pronounced reduction in tuberculosis mortality has been achieved due to advances in medical management, hence a greater proportion of patients with tuberculosis will survive and develop chronic sequelae. Although primary management with anti-tuberculosis drugs remains highly effective for most patients with tuberculosis, thoracic surgery provides important diagnostic and therapeutic options for those with chronic sequelae. Especially since surgery can now be offered via a minimally invasive procedure, such as video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS), which reduces morbidity compared with open surgery via a thoracotomy. Therefore, a wider range of patients with www.thelancet.com/respiratory Vol 12 January 2024 19 tginserG
Spotlight all equipment to national referral hospitals after the visit type of surgery is easier to start with, although gasless through the Diego Gonzalez Rivas Foundation (A Coruña, laparoscopy has seen progress, especially in the Indian
Spain). The local surgeons have laparoscopic skills from subcontinent.
training abroad—with limited experience of VATS—but have Our experience suggests that VAT surgery is feasible by not been able to perform such surgery until now. Surgeons visiting experts and local colleagues in Sierra Leone and from various major cities in Sierra Leone were present. Liberia, although the procedure is challenging under the
During our visit in Sierra Leone, we performed operations current local conditions. We call for action regarding the on two patients. A man aged 37 years received uniportal high incidence of tuberculosis and absence of thoracic
VATS decortication of a recurrent empyema thoracis. surgery in the region. Moving forward, several steps
Another man aged 28 years with AFB-negative sputum need to be taken urgently to ensure sustainability. One and post-tuberculosis sequelae who had haemoptysis and of these steps includes establishing diagnostic facilities, recurrent pneumonia received a left pneumonectomy due such as CT scans and spirometry, in national referral to aspergilloma of the left upper lobe invading the fissure. centres. Moreover, there is a crucial need to increase the
Due to difficulties with the electric network after multiple workforce in respiratory medicine and thoracic surgery hours of uniportal VATS, we completed the surgery in these countries. We recommend training dedicated with a pneumonectomy via thoracotomy. In Liberia, we teams of thoracic surgeons, anaesthetists, and operating performed an uniportal VATS right upper lobectomy for a room nurses as the starting point for a sustainable VATS woman aged 46 years with destroyed right and left upper programme in the region. Ultimately, this movement lobes and recurrent pneumonia. These three patients were should involve collaborations between countries to discharged from hospital in good clinical condition. enhance knowledge transfer and capacity building.
In both countries this was, to our knowledge, the first
VATS procedure, the first pulmonary resection, and even *Tom M Gresnigt, Mustapha Kabba, Souheil Boubia, the first therapeutic minimally invasive intervention. Rehginah Davies, Marta Lado, Mark I Kapuwa,
The advantage of starting minimally invasive surgery in Peter S Coleman, Trésor Mabanza, Kebede Gofer,
LMICs with VATS is that no CO₂ is needed and hence this Diego Gonzalez-Rivas
20 www.thelancet.com/respiratory Vol 12 January 2024